The shadow of the dome of pleasure Floated midway on the waves.
Hence originated their contempt for terrestrial distinctions.
Nowhere else on the Mount of Olives is there a view like this.
In the sands of Africa and Arabia the camel is a sacred and precious gift.
The last of all the Bards was he.
Slavery they can have anywhere.
Listen, on the other hand, to an ignorant man.
What must have been the emotions of the Spaniards!
Such was not the effect produced on the sanguine spirit of the general.
What a contrast did these children of southern Europe present to the Anglo-Saxon races!
This, and other measures of precaution, I took.
The pursuing the inquiry under the light of an end or final cause, gives wonderful animation, a sort of personality to the whole writing.
Why does the horizon hold me fast, with my joy and grief, in this center?
His books have no melody, no emotion, no humor, no relief to the dead prosaic level.
On the voyage to Egypt, he liked, after dinner, to fix on three or four persons to support a proposition, and as many to oppose it.
Fashion does not often caress the great, but the children of the great.
No rent roll can dignify skulking and dissimulation.
They do not wish to be lovely, but to be loved.
Evil, according to old philosophers, is good in the making.
But anger drives a man to say anything.
The teachings of the High Spirit are abstemious, and, in regard to particulars, negative.
Spanish diet and youth leave the digestion undisordered and the slumbers light.
Yet they made themselves sycophantic servants of the King of Spain.
A merciless oppressor hast thou been.
To the men of this world, to the animal strength and spirits, the man of ideas appears out of his reason.
I felt myself, for the first time, burthened with the anxieties of a man, and a member of the world.
Not the less I owe thee justice.
Unhorse me, then, this imperial rider.
She told the first lieutenant part of the truth.
I promised her protection against all ghosts.
I gave him an address to my friend, the attorney.
Paint me, then, a room seventeen feet by twelve.
To suffer and to do, that was thy portion in life.
A river formed the boundary,—the river Meuse.
In one feature, Lamb resembles Sir Walter Scott; viz., in the dramatic character of his mind and taste.
This view was luminously expounded by Archbishop Whately, the present Archbishop of Dublin.
Yes, at length the warrior lady, the blooming cornet, this nun so martial, this dragoon so lovely, must visit again the home of her childhood.
It moves from one flower to another like a gleam of light, upwards, downwards, to the right and to the left.
And hark! like the roar of the billows on the shore, The cry of battle rises along their changing line.
Their intention was to have a gay, happy dinner, after their long confinement to a ship, at the chief hotel.
That night, in little peaceful Easedale, six children sat by a peat fire, expecting the return of their parents.
Our life is March weather, savage and serene in one hour.
I will try to keep the balance true.
The questions of Whence? What? and Whither? and the solution of these, must be in a life, not in a book.
The ward meetings on election days are not softened by any misgiving of the value of these ballotings.
Our English Bible is a wonderful specimen of the strength and music of the English language.
Through the years and the centuries, through evil agents, through toys and atoms, a great and beneficent tendency irresistibly streams.
To be hurried away by every event, is to have no political system at all.
This mysticism the ancients called ecstasy,—a getting-out of their bodies to think.
He risked everything, and spared nothing, neither ammunition, nor money, nor troops, nor generals, nor himself.
We are always in peril, always in a bad plight, just on the edge of destruction, and only to be saved by invention and courage.
His opinion is always original, and to the purpose.
To these gifts of nature, Napoleon added the advantage of having been born to a private and humble fortune.
The water, like a witch's oils, Burnt green and blue and white.
We one day descried some shapeless object floating at a distance.
Old Adam, the carrion crow, The old crow of Cairo; He sat in the shower, and let it flow Under his tail and over his crest.
It costs no more for a wise soul to convey his quality to other men.
It is easy to sugar to be sweet.
At times the black volume of clouds overhead seemed rent asunder by flashes of lightning.
The whole figure and air, good and amiable otherwise, might be called flabby and irresolute.20. I have heard Coleridge talk, with eager energy, two stricken hours, and communicate no meaning whatsoever to any individual.
The word conscience has become almost confined, in popular use, to the moral sphere.
You may ramble a whole day together, and every moment discover something new.
She had grown up amidst the liberal culture of Henry's court a bold horsewoman, a good shot, a graceful dancer, a skilled musician, an accomplished scholar.
Her aims were simple and obvious,—to preserve her throne, to keep England out of war, to restore civil and religious order.
Fair name might he have handed down, Effacing many a stain of former crime.
Of the same grandeur, in less heroic and poetic form, was the patriotism of Peel in recent history.
Oxford, ancient mother! hoary with ancestral honors, time-honored, and, haply, time-shattered power—I owe thee nothing!
The villain, I hate him and myself, to be a reproach to such goodness.
I dare this, upon my own ground, and in my own garden, to bid you leave the place now and forever.
Upon this shore stood, ready to receive her, in front of all this mighty crowd, the prime minister of Spain, the same Condé Olivarez.
Great was their surprise to see a young officer in uniform stretched within the bushes upon the ground.
She had made a two days' march, baggage far in the rear, and no provisions but wild berries.
This amiable relative, an elderly man, had but one foible, or perhaps one virtue, in this world.
Now, it would not have been filial or ladylike.
Supposing this computation to be correct, it must have been in the latitude of Boston, the present capital of New England.
he cry, "A strange vessel close aboard the frigate!" having already flown down the hatches, the ship was in an uproar.
But yield, proud foe, thy fleet With the crews at England's feet.
Few in number, and that number rapidly perishing away through sickness and hardships; surrounded by a howling wilderness and savage tribes; exposed to the rigors of an almost arctic winter,—their minds were filled with doleful forebodings.
List to the mournful tradition still sung by the pines of the forest.
In the Acadian land, on the shores of the Basin of Minas, Distant, secluded, still, the little village of Grand-Pré Lay in the fruitful valley.
Must we in all things look for the how, and the why, and the wherefore?
I felt that I breathed an atmosphere of sorrow.
But the fact is, I was napping.
Shaking off from my spirit what must have been a dream, I scanned more narrowly the aspect of the building.
Except by what he could see for himself, he could know nothing.
Whatever he looks upon discloses a second sense.
It will not be pretended that a success in either of these kinds is quite coincident with what is best and inmost in his mind.
The reply of Socrates, to him who asked whether he should choose a wife, still remains reasonable, that, whether he should choose one or not, he would repent it.
What history it had, how it changed from shape to shape, no man will ever know.
Such a man is what we call an original man.
Our current hypothesis about Mohammed, that he was a scheming impostor, a falsehood incarnate, that his religion is a mere mass of quackery and fatuity, begins really to be no longer tenable to any one.
There were passages that reminded me perhaps too much of Massillon.
I walked home with Calhoun, who said that the principles which I had avowed were just and noble.
Other men are lenses through which we read our own minds.
In one of those celestial days when heaven and earth meet and adorn each other, it seems a pity that we can only spend it once.
One of the maidens presented a silver cup, containing a rich mixture of wine and spice, which Rowena tasted.
No man is reason or illumination, or that essence we were looking for.
In the moment when he ceases to help us as a cause, he begins to help us more as an effect.
Socrates took away all ignominy from the place, which could not be a prison whilst he was there.
This is perhaps the reason why we so seldom hear ghosts except in our long-established Dutch settlements.
From the moment you lose sight of the land you have left, all is vacancy.
Nature waited tranquilly for the hour to be struck when man should arrive.
As I was clearing away the weeds from this epitaph, the little sexton drew me on one side with a mysterious air, and informed me in a low voice that once upon a time, on a dark wintry night, when the wind was unruly, howling and whistling, banging about doors and windows, and twirling weathercocks, so that the living were frightened out of their beds, and even the dead could not sleep quietly in their graves, the ghost of honest Preston was attracted by the well-known call of "waiter," and made its sudden appearance just as the parish clerk was singing a stave from the "mirrie garland of Captain Death."
If the children gathered about her, as they sometimes did, Pearl would grow positively terrible in her puny wrath, snatching up stones to fling at them, with shrill, incoherent exclamations, that made her mother tremble because they had so much the sound of a witch's anathemas.
The spell of life went forth from her ever-creative spirit, and communicated itself to a thousand objects, as a torch kindles a flame wherever it may be applied.
Take the place and attitude which belong to you.
That mood into which a friend brings us is his dominion over us.
True art is only possible on the condition that every talent has its apotheosis somewhere.
The deep eyes, of a light hazel, were as full of sorrow as of inspiration.
She is the only church that has been loyal to the heart and soul of man, that has clung to her faith in the imagination.
She has never lost sight of the truth that the product human nature is composed of the sum of flesh and spirit.
But now that she has become an establishment, she begins to perceive that she made a blunder in trusting herself to the intellect alone.
Before long his talk would wander into all the universe, where it was uncertain what game you would catch, or whether any.
The night proved unusually dark, so that the two principals had to tie white handkerchiefs round their elbows in order to descry each other.
Whether she would ever awake seemed to depend upon an accident.
Here lay two great roads, not so much for travelers that were few, as for armies that were too many by half.
It was haunted to that degree by fairies, that the parish priest was obliged to read mass there once a year.
More than one military plan was entered upon which she did not approve.
As surely as the wolf retires before cities, does the fairy sequester herself from the haunts of the licensed victualer.
M. Michelet is anxious to keep us in mind that this bishop was but an agent of the English.
Next came a wretched Dominican, that pressed her with an objection, which, if applied to the Bible, would tax every miracle with unsoundness.
The reader ought to be reminded that Joanna D'Arc was subject to an unusually unfair trial.
Now, had she really testified this willingness on the scaffold, it would have argued nothing at all but the weakness of a genial nature.
And those will often pity that weakness most, who would yield to it least.
Whether she said the word is uncertain.
This is she, the shepherd girl, counselor that had none for herself, whom I choose, bishop, for yours.
Had they been better chemists, had we been worse, the mixed result, namely, that, dying for them, the flower should revive for us, could not have been effected.
I like that representation they have of the tree.24. He was what our country people call an old one.
He thought not any evil happened to men of such magnitude as false opinion.
These things we are forced to say, if we must consider the effort of Plato to dispose of Nature, —- which will not be disposed of.
He showed one who was afraid to go on foot to Olympia, that it was no more than his daily walk, if continuously extended, would easily reach.
What can we see or acquire but what we are? 29. Our eyes are holden that we cannot see things that stare us in the face, until the hour arrives when the mind is ripened.
There is good reason why we should prize this liberation.
The way to speak and write what shall not go out of fashion, is to speak and write sincerely.
The writer who takes his subject from his ear, and not from his heart, should know that he has lost as much as he has gained.
"No book," said Bentley, "was ever written down by any but itself." 4. That which we do not believe, we cannot adequately say, though we may repeat the words never so often.
We say so because we feel that what we love is not in your will, but above it.
It makes no difference how many friends I have, and what content I can find in conversing with each, if there be one to whom I am not equal.
In every troop of boys that whoop and run in each yard and square, a new-comer is as well and accurately weighed in the course of a few days, and stamped with his right number, as if he had undergone a formal trial of his strength, speed, and temper.
Speak your latent conviction, and it shall be the universal sense; for the inmost in due time becomes the outmost.
I no longer wish to meet a good I do not earn, for example, to find a pot of buried gold.
Your goodness must have some edge to it—-else it is none.
Man does not stand in awe of man, nor is his genius admonished to stay at home, but it goes abroad to beg a cup of water of the urns of other men.
A man cannot speak but he judges himself.
In your metaphysics you have denied personality to the Deity, yet when the devout motions of the soul come, yield to them heart and life.
I thought that it was a Sunday morning in May; that it was Easter Sunday, and as yet very early in the morning.
We denote the primary wisdom as intuition, whilst all later teachings are tuitions.
Whilst the world is thus dual, so is every one of its parts.10. They measure the esteem of each other by what each has, and not by what each is.
For everything you have missed, you have gained something else; and for everything you gain, you lose something.
I sometimes seemed to have lived for seventy or one hundred years in one night; nay, I sometimes had feelings representative of a millennium, passed in that time, or, however, of a duration far beyond the limits of experience.
However some may think him wanting in zeal, the most fanatical can find no taint of apostasy in any measure of his.
In this manner, from a happy yet often pensive child, he grew up to be a mild, quiet, unobtrusive boy, and sunbrowned with labor in the fields, but with more intelligence than is seen in many lads from the schools.
The gain is apparent; the tax is certain.
If I feel overshadowed and outdone by great neighbors, I can yet love; I can still receive; and he that loveth maketh his own the grandeur that he loves.
Love, and thou shalt be loved.
All loss, all pain, is particular; the universe remains to the heart unhurt.
Place yourself in the middle of the stream of power and wisdom which animates all whom it floats, and you are without effort impelled to truth.
He teaches who gives, and he learns who receives.
Whatever he knows and thinks, whatever in his apprehension is worth doing, that let him communicate, or men will never know and honor him aright.
Stand aside; give those merits room; let them mount and expand.
We see the noble afar off, and they repel us; why should we intrude? 10. We go to Europe, or we pursue persons, or we read books, in the instinctive faith that these will call it out and reveal us to ourselves.
A gay and pleasant sound is the whetting of the scythe in the mornings of June, yet what is more lonesome and sad than the sound of a whetstone or mower's rifle when it is too late in the season to make hay? 12. "Strike," says the smith, "the iron is white;" "keep the rake," says the haymaker, "as nigh the scythe as you can, and the cart as nigh the rake." 13. Trust men, and they will be true to you; treat them greatly, and they will show themselves great, though they make an exception in your favor to all their rules of trade.
On the most profitable lie the course of events presently lays a destructive tax; whilst frankness invites frankness, puts the parties on a convenient footing, and makes their business a friendship.
The sturdiest offender of your peace and of the neighborhood, if you rip up his claims, is as thin and timid as any; and the peace of society is often kept, because, as children, one is afraid, and the other dares not.
They will shuffle and crow, crook and hide, feign to confess here, only that they may brag and conquer there, and not a thought has enriched either party, and not an emotion of bravery, modesty, or hope.
The magic they used was the ideal tendencies, which always make the Actual ridiculous; but the tough world had its revenge the moment they put their horses of the sun to plow in its furrow.
Come into port greatly, or sail with God the seas.
When you have chosen your part, abide by it, and do not weakly try to reconcile yourself with the world.20. Times of heroism are generally times of terror, but the day never shines in which this element may not work.
Life is a train of moods like a string of beads, and as we pass through them they prove to be many-colored lenses which paint the world their own hue, and each shows only what lies at its focus.
We see young men who owe us a new world, so readily and lavishly they promise, but they never acquit the debt; they die young, and dodge the account; or, if they live, they lose themselves in the crowd.
So does culture with us; it ends in headache.
Do not craze yourself with thinking, but go about your business anywhere.
Thus journeys the mighty Ideal before us; it never was known to fall into the rear.
