"Let others lead small lives, but not you. Let others argue over small things, but not you. Let others cry over small hurts, but not you. Let others leave their future in someone else's hands, but not you." --Jim Rohn 
"Trust yourself, then you will know how to live." --Johann Wolfgang van Goethe "You can never cross the ocean unless you have the courage to lose sight of the 
shore." --Christopher Columbus "When one door of happiness closes, another opens; but often we look so long at the 
closed door that we do not see the one that has opened for us." --Helen Keller 
"Always do right. This will gratify some people and astonish the rest." --Mark Twain 
"It is our choices that show what we truly are, far more than our abilities." --J.K. Rowling 
"I'm not afraid... I was BORN for this!" --Joan of Arc "Whatever you are willing to put up with is exactly what you will have." --Anonymous 
"We are what we imagine. Our very existence consists in our imagination of ourselves. The greatest tragedy that can befall us is to go unimagined." --N. Scott Momaday 
"There is a fire inside. Sit down beside it. Watch the flames, the ancient, flickering dance of yourself." --John MacEnulty 
"Destiny is not a matter of chance, it is a matter of choice. It is not a thing to be waited for, it is a thing to be achieved." --William Jennings Bryan 
"I have always known that at last I would take this road, but yesterday I did not know that it would be today." --Japanese Haiku 
"There is no chance, no destiny, no fate that can circumvent or hinder or control the firm resolve of a determined soul." --Ella Wheeler Wilcox 
"Life is not discovery of fate; it is continuous creation of future, through choices of thoughts, feelings and actions in the present." --Sanjay Sahay 
"You were born an original. Don't die a copy." --John Mason "Is life not a hundred times too short for us to stifle ourselves?" --Friedrich Nietzsche 
"There is only one real failure in life that is possible, and that is not to be true to the best one knows." --John Farrar 
"The pen that writes your life story must be held in your own hand." --Irene C. Kassorla "Every choice before you represents the universe inviting you to remember who you 
are and what you want." --Alan Cohen "Men weary as much of not doing the things they want to do as of doing the things 
they do not want to do." --Eric Hoffer "Out of clutter, find simplicity. From discord, find harmony. In the middle of difficulty 
lies opportunity." --Albert Einstein 
"Nothing truly valuable arises from ambition or from a mere sense of duty; it stems rather from love and devotion towards men and towards objective things." --Albert Einstein 
"To serve is beautiful, but only if it is done with joy and a whole heart." --Pearl S. Buck 
"How do we keep our inner fire alive? Two things, at minimum, are needed: an ability to appreciate the positives in our life - and a commitment to action." --Nathaniel Branden 
"Let him who would enjoy a good future waste none of his present." --Roger Babson 
"The path to our destination is not always a straight one. We go down the wrong road, we get lost, we turn back. Maybe it doesn't matter which road we embark on. Maybe what matters is that we embark." --Barbara Hall 
"It takes great courage to faithfully follow what we know to be true." --Sara E. Anderson "Our background and circumstances may have influenced who we are, but we are 
responsible for who we become." --Barbara Geraci "Great thoughts speak only to the thoughtful mind, but great actions speak to all 
Mankind." --Emily P. Bissell 
"There is a criterion by which you can judge whether the thoughts you are thinking and the things you are doing are right for you. The criterion is: Have they brought you inner peace?" --The Peace Pilgrim 
"There is more in us than we know. If we can be made to see it, perhaps, for the rest of our lives, we will be unwilling to settle for less." --Kurt Hahn 
"From long familiarity, we know what honor is. It is what enables the individual to do right in the face of complacency and cowardice. It is what enables the soldier to die alone, the political prisoner to resist, the singer to sing her song, hardly appreciated, on a side street." --Mark Helprin  
"We all live under the same sky, but we don't all have the same horizon." --Konrad Adenauer 
"If it doesn't feel right, don't do it. That is the lesson, and that lesson alone will save you a lot of grief." --Oprah Winfrey 
"The time is always right to do what is right." --Martin Luther King, Jr. 
"Time is the coin of your life. It is the only coin you have, and only you can determine how it will be spent. Be careful lest you let other people spend it for you." --Carl Sandburg 
"The goal of childhood is to become an individual; the goal of adulthood is to give that individuality away. The task of childhood is to separate; the task of adulthood is to connect." --James W. Jones 
"The best career advice to give the young is, find out what you like doing best and get someone else to pay you for doing it." --Katherine Whilehaen 
"The gem cannot be polished without friction nor man without trials." --Confucius "Hands that serve are holier than lips that pray." --Sai Baba 
"To be yourself in a world that is constantly trying to make you something else is the greatest accomplishment." --Ralph Waldo Emerson 
"You will recognize your own path when you come upon it, because you will suddenly have all the energy and imagination you will ever need." --Jerry Gillies 
"Destiny is not a matter of chance, it is a matter of choice. It is not a thing to be waited for, it is a thing to be achieved." --Jeremy Kitson 
"The best way to find yourself is to lose yourself in the service of others." --Mohandas K. Gandhi 
"The height of your accomplishments will equal the depth of your convictions." -- William F. Scolavino 
"I think the purpose of life is to be useful, to be responsible, to be honorable, to be compassionate. It is, after all, to matter: to count, to stand for something, to have made some difference that you lived at all." --Leo C. Rosten 
"Toil and risk are the price of glory, but it is a lovely thing to live with courage and die leaving an everlasting fame." --Alexander the Great 
"To give real service you must add something which cannot be bought or measured with money, and that is sincerity and integrity." --Donald A. Adams 
"Dignity and respect has to do with ... your personal power to make a difference by being true to the best within you and letting that truth shine through your words and actions." --Gail Pursell Elliott 
"When you are inspired by some great purpose, some extraordinary project, all your thoughts break their bonds: Your mind transcends limitations, your consciousness expands in every direction, and you find yourself in a new, great, and wonderful world. Dormant forces, faculties and talents become alive, and you discover yourself to be a greater person by far than you ever dreamed yourself to be." --Patanjali 
"You will recognize your own path when you come upon it, because you will suddenly have all the energy and imagination you will ever need." --Jerry Gillies  
 
"Seek out that particular mental attribute which makes you feel most deeply and vitally alive, along with which comes the inner voice which says, 'This is the real me,' and when you have found that attitude, follow it." --William James 
"When you see what you're here for, the world begins to mirror your purpose in a magical way. It's almost as if you suddenly find yourself on a stage in a play that was written expressly for you." --Betty Sue Flowers 
"We seek purpose when we are not in touch with who we really are. When an apple tree discovers who it is, the question 'what must I do?' disappears. When you discover who you are (at the deepest place of your being) you will find your purpose." -- Colleen-Joy Page 
"Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life and don't let the noise of others' opinions drown out your own inner voice. Most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They somehow already know what you truly want to become." --Steve Jobs 
"Too many people overvalue what they are not and undervalue what they are." -- 
Malcolm Forbes 
"True happiness is not attained through self-gratification, but through fidelity to a worthy purpose." –Helen Keller 
"When you are inspired by some great purpose, some extraordinary project, all your thoughts break their bonds: Your mind transcends limitations, your consciousness expands in every direction, and you find yourself in a new, great, and wonderful world. Dormant forces, faculties and talents become alive, and you discover yourself to be a greater person by far than you ever dreamed yourself to be." --Patanjali 
"We seek purpose when we are not in touch with who we really are. When an apple tree discovers who it is, the question 'what must I do?' disappears. When you discover who you are (at the deepest place of your being) you will find your purpose." -- Colleen-Joy Page 
"People who consider themselves victims of their circumstances will always remain victims unless they develop a greater vision for their lives." --Stedman Graham 
"Too many of us are not living our dreams because we are living our fears." --Les Brown 
"I want to sing like the birds sing, not worrying about who hears or what they think." -- Rumi 
"Love without action is meaningless and action without love is irrelevant." --Deepak Chopra 
"Let yourself be silently drawn by the stronger pull of what you really love." --Rumi "Having a vision for your life allows you to live out of hope, rather than out of your 
fears." --Stedman Graham "To understand the heart and mind of a person, look not at what he has already 
achieved, but at what he aspires to do." --Kahlil Gibran 
"I don't know what your destiny will be, but one thing I know: the only ones among you who will be truly happy are those who have sought and found how to serve." --Albert Schweitzer 
"If you want to know the past, to know what has caused you, look at yourself in the PRESENT, for that is the past's effect. If you want to know your future, then look at yourself in the PRESENT, for that is the cause of the future." --Majjhima Nikaya 
"All of life is a near-death experience." --Alan Harris "When you were born, you cried and the world rejoiced. Live your life so that when 
you die, the world cries and you rejoice." --Cherokee Expression 
"There is a time to let things happen, and a time to make things happen." 
"Life is what happens when you are making other plans." --John Lennon 
"Circumstance does not make the man. Circumstance reveals man to himself." -- 
Emerson 
"Time is too slow for those who wait, too swift for those who fear, too long for those who grieve, too short for those who rejoice, but for those who love, time is eternity." -- Henry Van Dyke 
"Truly loving another means letting go of all expectations. It means full acceptance, even celebration of another's personhood." --Karen Casey 
"It is not how much we do, but how much love we put in the doing. It is not how much we give, but how much love we put in the giving." --Mother Teresa 
"People take different roads seeking fulfillment and happiness. Just because they're not on your road doesn't mean they've gotten lost." --Dalai Lama 
"We look forward to the time when the Power of Love will replace the Love of Power. Then will our world know the blessings of Peace." –William E. Gladstone 
"We don't stop playing because we grow old; we grow old because we stop playing." – George Bernard Shaw 
"I've come to believe that each of us has a personal calling that's as unique as a fingerprint - and that the best way to succeed is to discover what you love and then find a way to offer it to others in the form of service, working hard, and also allowing the energy of the universe to lead you." –Oprah Winfrey 
"The purpose of life is not to fight against evil and misfortune; it is to unveil magnificence." –Alan Cohen 
"A ship in harbor is safe, but that is not what ships are for." –John A. Shedd 
One ship sails East, And another West, By the self-same winds that blow, Tis the set of the sails And not the gales, That tells the way we go. 
Like the winds of the sea Are the waves of time, As we journey along through life, Tis the set of the soul, That determines the goal, And not the calm or the strife. –Ella Wheeler Wilcox  
"You often meet your destiny on the road you've taken to avoid it." 
"Every positive change - every jump to a higher level of energy and awareness - involves a rite of passage. Each time to ascend to a higher rung on the ladder of personal evolution, we must go through a period of discomfort, of initiation. I have never found an exception." --Dan Millman 
"There is a vitality, a life force, an energy that is translated through you; and because there is only one of you in all of time, this expression is unique." --Martha Graham 
"Your vision will become clear only when you can look into your own heart. Who looks outside, dreams, who looks inside awakes." --Carl Gustav Jung 
"Wisdom is knowing what path to take next... Integrity is taking it." 
"We can't change the wind, but we can adjust the sails." 
"If you don't design your own life plan, chances are you'll fall into someone else's plan. And guess what they have planned for you? Not much." --Jim Rohn 
"Destiny is not a matter of chance, it is a matter of choice. It is not a thing to be waited for, it is a thing to be achieved." --William Jennings Bryan 
"The meaning of life is to give life meaning." --Ken Hudgins 
"Everyone has a purpose in life... a unique gift or special talent to give to others. And when we blend this unique talent with service to others, we experience the ecstasy and exultation of our own spirit, which is the ultimate goal of all goals." --Deepak Chopra 
"Though no one can go back and make a brand new start, anyone can start from now and make a brand new ending." --Carl Bard 
"It's never too late to be what you might have been." --George Elliot "Life's like a movie; write your own ending, keep believing, keep pretending..." --Jim 
Henson "Life has meaning only if you do what is meaningful to you." --Alan Cohen 
"Destiny is not a matter of chance, it is a matter of choice. It is not a thing to be waited for, it is a thing to be achieved." --Jeremy Kitson 
"Life is a daring adventure or it is nothing at all." --Helen Keller 
"There is no security in this life. There is only opportunity." --Douglas MacArthur 
"It may be that when we no longer know what to do, we have come to our real work, and when we no longer know which way to go, we have begun our real journey." -- Wendell Berry 
"Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things that you didn't do than by the ones you did do. So throw off the bowlines. Sail away from the safe harbour. Catch the trade winds in your sails. Explore. Dream. Discover." --Mark Twain 
"The greatest danger for most of us is not that our aim is too high and we miss it, but that it is too low and we reach it." --Michaelangelo 
"Don't ask yourself what the world needs; ask yourself what makes you come alive. And then go and do that. Because what the world needs is people who have come alive." --Harold Whitman  
"The only limits to the possibilities in your life tomorrow are the buts you use today." 
--Les Brown 
"When you are inspired by some great purpose, some extraordinary project, all your thoughts break their bounds. Dormant forces, faculties and talents become alive, and you discover yourself to be a greater person by far than you ever dreamed yourself to be." --Pantanjali 
"Nothing happens unless first a dream." --Carl Sandburg 
"Strange is our situation here upon earth. Each of us comes for a short visit, not knowing why, yet sometimes seeming to divine a purpose. From the standpoint of daily life, however, there is one thing we do know - that man is here for the sake of other men." --Albert Einstein 
"Man is not a being who stands still, he is a being in the process of becoming. The more he enables himself to become, the more he fulfills his true mission." --Rudolph Steiner 
"The person without a purpose is like a ship without a rudder." --Thomas Carlyle "Your vision will become clear only when you look into your heart. Who looks outside, 
dreams. Who looks inside, awakens." --Carl Jung 
"I think the purpose of life is to be useful, to be responsible, to be honorable, to be compassionate. It is, after all, to matter: to count, to stand for something, to have made some difference that you lived at all." --Leo C. Rosten 
"He who waits to do a great deal of good at once, will never do anything." --Samuel Johnson 
"You must be the change you wish to see in the world." --Mahatma Ghandi 
"A man is ethical only when life, as such, is sacred to him, that of plants and animals as that of his fellow men, and when he devotes himself helpfully to all life that is in need of help." --George Orwell 
"It is never too late to become what you might have been." --George Elliot 
"I had found a kind of serenity, a new maturity... I didn't feel better or stronger than anyone else but it seemed no longer important whether everyone loved me or not -- more important now was for me to love them. Feeling that way turns your whole life around; living becomes the act of giving." --Beverly Sills 
"Life isn't about finding yourself. Life is about creating yourself." --George Bernard Shaw 
"A good traveler has no fixed plans, and is not intent on arriving." --Lao Tzu 
"He who dares nothing need hope for nothing." 
"Far better is it to dare mighty things, to win glorious triumphs - even though checkered by failure - than to rank with those poor spirits who neither enjoy much nor suffer much, because they live in a gray twilight that knows not victory nor defeat." -- Theodore Roosevelt 
"A coward gets scared and quits. A hero gets scared, but still goes on." 
"God is the mind that imagines physical reality. We are each like a cell in that mind." -- Peter shepherd 
"It's never too late to change the programming imprinted in childhood, carried in our genes or derived from previous lives; the solution is mindfulness in the present moment." --Peter Shepherd 
"Talk to yourself in two languages - what do I fear and what do I love - in order to balance the body and the soul." --Peter Shepherd 
"Survival is for the human animal; fear the motivation. For the spiritual being survival is irrelevant. Curiosity, compassion and creativity are the name of the game; unconditional love the motivation." --Peter Shepherd 
"Love is patient, love is kind. It does not envy, it does not boast, it is not proud. It is not rude, it is not self-seeking, it is not easily angered, it keeps no record of wrongs. Love does not delight in evil but rejoices with the truth. It always protects, always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres... And now these three remain: faith hope and love. But the greatest of these is love." --Bible (I Corinthians :-, ) 
"When you were born, you were crying and everyone around you was smiling. Live your life so that when you die, you're the one smiling and everyone around you is crying." --Unknown 
"There will come a time when you believe everything is finished. That will be the beginning." --Louis L'Amour 
"Life is really simple, but men insist on making it complicated." --Confucius "Only through love can we obtain communion with God." --Albert Schweitzer  
"The soul would have no rainbow if the eyes had no tears." --Native American proverb "Help me never to judge another until I have walked a mile in his moccasins." --Indian 
prayer 
"In the place of stillness, rises potential. From the place of potential, emerges possibility. Where there is possibility, there is choice. And where there is choice, there is freedom!" --Gabrielle Goddard 
"All major religious traditions carry basically the same message, that is love, compassion and forgiveness ... the important thing is they should be part of our daily lives." --Dalai Lama 
"You yourself, as much as anybody in the entire universe, deserve your love and affection." --Buddha 
"Blessed are those who can give without remembering and take without forgetting." -- Elizabeth Bibesco 
"This above all; to your own self be true." --William Shakespeare 
Meaning of Namaste: "I honor the place in you in which the entire universe dwells. I honor the place in you, which is of love, of truth, of light and of peace. When you are in that place in you, and I am in that place in me, we are one." 
"To love yourself right now, just as you are, is to give yourself heaven. Don't wait until you die. If you wait, you die now. If you love, you live now." --Alan Cohen 
"Man is lost and is wandering in a jungle where real values have no meaning. Real values can have meaning to man only when he steps on to the spiritual path, a path where negative emotions have no use." --Sai Baba 
"The most common ego identifications have to do with possessions, the work you do, social status and recognition, knowledge and education, physical appearance, special abilities, relationships, personal and family history, belief systems, and often political, nationalistic, racial, religious, and other collective identifications. None of these is you." --Eckhart Tolle 
"When you do things from your soul, you feel a river moving in you, a joy." --Jalal al- Din Muhammad Rumi 
"The most common form of despair is not being who you are." --Søren Kierkegaard "To forgive is to set a prisoner free and discover that the prisoner was you." --Lewis B. 
Smedes "Forgiveness is the attribute of the strong." --Mahatma Gandhi 
"Be patient with yourself. Self-growth is tender; it's holy ground. There is no greater investment." --Stephen Covey 
"God experiences Life through each of us, and we experience Life thanks to God." -- Peter Shepherd 
"To speak gratitude is courteous and pleasant, but to live gratitude is to touch heaven." --Johannes A. Gaertner 
"Just listen to the still voice within. This is the mind to trust. This is god consciousness speaking, not the ego that is seeking recognition." --Angela Walker 
"The first step toward change is acceptance. Once you accept yourself, you open the door to change." --Will Garcia 
"It is not the answer that enlightens, but the question." --Decouvertes 
"Choose being kind over being right, and you'll be right every time." --Richard Carlson 
"Insight occurs when, and to the degree that, one knows oneself." --Andrew Schneider 
"What is necessary to change a person is to change his awareness of himself." -- Abraham H. Maslow 
"Knowing others is wisdom; knowing the self is enlightenment." --Tao Te Ching "You, yourself, as much as anybody in the entire universe, deserve your love and 
affection." --Buddha "Our prayers are answered not when we are given what we ask, but when we are 
challenged to be what we can be." --Morris Adler 
"Each today, well-lived, makes yesterday a dream of happiness and each tomorrow a vision of hope. Look, therefore, to this one day, for it and it alone is life." --Sanskrit poem 
"The period of greatest gain in knowledge and experience is the most difficult period in one's life." --Dalai Lama 
"How do we nurture the soul? By revering our own life. By learning to love it all, not only the joys and the victories, but also the pain and the struggles." --Nathaniel Branden 
"When there is love in your heart, everything outside of you also becomes lovable." -- Veeresh 
"You are free to believe what you choose and what you do attests to what you believe." --A Course in Miracles 
"When we focus on clarifying what is being observed, felt, and needed rather than on diagnosing and judging, we discover the depth of our own compassion." --Marshall B. Rosenberg 
"Only in quiet waters things mirror themselves undistorted. Only in a quiet mind is adequate perception of the world." --Hans Margolius 
"All changes, even the most longed for, have their melancholy; for what we leave behind us is a part of ourselves; we must die to one life before we can enter another." --Anatole France 
"The ache for home lives in all of us, the safe place where we can go as we are and not be questioned." --Maya Angelou 
"Every human has four endowments - self awareness, conscience, independent will and creative imagination. These give us the power to discern, to choose, to respond, to change." --Stephen R. Covey 
"If you would be a real seeker after truth, it is necessary that at least once in your life you doubt, as far as possible, all things." --Rene Descartes 
"Love is patient, love is kind. It does not envy, it does not boast, it is not proud. It is not rude, it is not self-seeking, it is not easily angered, it keeps no record of wrongs.  
Love does not delight in evil but rejoices with the truth. It always protects, always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres." -- Corinthians :- 
"It is love alone that leads to right action. What brings order in the world is to love and let love do what it will." --Krishnamurti 
"It is only by grounding our awareness in the living sensation of our bodies that the 'I Am,' our real presence, can awaken." --G.I. Gurdjieff 
"Love gives us in a moment what we can hardly attain by effort after years of toil." -- Goethe 
"This is the way of peace: Overcome evil with good, and falsehood with truth, and hatred with love." --Peace Pilgrim 
"Some people, no matter how old they get, never lose their beauty - they merely move it from their faces into their hearts." --Martin Buxbaum 
"Everybody needs beauty as well as bread, places to play in and pray in, where nature may heal and give strength to body and soul." --John Muir 
"Life is a series of natural and spontaneous changes. Don't resist them, that only creates sorrow. Let things flow naturally forward in whatever way they like." --Lao-tzu 
"The more conscious you become, the more aware you become of how unconscious you've been." --Patricia Sun 
"The human spirit is stronger than anything that can happen to it." --C.C. Scott "The more you recognize the immense good within you, the more you magnetize 
immense good around you." --Alan Cohen 
"There is no difficulty that enough LOVE will not conquer, no disease that enough LOVE will not heal, no door that enough LOVE will not open, no gulf that enough LOVE will not bridge, no wall that enough LOVE will not throw down, no sin that enough LOVE will not redeem..." --Emmet Fox 
"Faith is the bird that feels the light and sings when the dawn is still dark." -- Rabindranath Tagor 
"Love all God's creations, both the whole and every grain of sand. Love every leaf, every ray of light. Love the animals, love the plants, love each separate thing. If you love each thing, you will perceive the mystery of God in All." --Fyodor Dostoevsky 
"Love is what we were born with. Fear is what we learned here. The spiritual journey is the relinquishment, or unlearning, of fear and the acceptance of love back into our hearts." --Marianne Williamson 
"Meditation takes place when you bring all your awareness to this moment." --Brandon Bays 
"Talk to yourself in two languages - what do I fear and what do I love - in order to balance the body and the soul." --Peter Shepherd 
"The eye through which I see God is the same eye through which God sees me; my eye and God's eye are one eye, one seeing, one knowing, one love." --Meister Eckhart 
"Every positive change - every jump to a higher level of energy and awareness - involves a rite of passage. Each time to ascend to a higher rung on the ladder of  
personal evolution, we must go through a period of discomfort, of initiation. I have never found an exception." --Dan Millman 
"The world we are experiencing today is the result of our collective consciousness, and if we want a new world, each of us must start taking responsibility for helping create it." --Rosemary Fillmore Rhea 
"Unity consciousness is a state of enlightenment where we pierce the mask of illusion which creates separation and fragmentation. Behind the appearance of separation is one unified field of wholeness. Here the seer and the scenery are one." --Deepak Chopra 
"Our inner guidance comes to us through our feelings and body wisdom first - not through intellectual understanding. The intellect works best in service to our intuition, our inner guidance, soul, God or higher power - whichever term we choose for the spiritual energy that animates life." --Christiane Northrup 
"If we fail to nourish our souls, they wither, and without soul, life ceases to have meaning.... The creative process shrivels in the absence of continual dialogue with the soul. And creativity is what makes life worth living." --Marion Woodman 
"If you open your heart, love opens your mind." --Charles John Quarto "Love's greatest gift is its ability to make everything it touches sacred." --Barbara De 
Angelis 
"When we seek for connection, we restore the world to wholeness. Our seemingly separate lives become meaningful as we discover how truly necessary we are to each other." --Margaret Wheatley 
"Love wholeheartedly, be surprised, give thanks and praise then you will discover the fullness of your life." --David Steindl-Rast 
"Love is a promise, love is a souvenir, once given never forgotten, never let it disappear." --John Lennon 
"If you judge people, you have no time to love them." --Mother Teresa "Any situation that you find yourself in, is an outward reflection of your inner state of 
beingness." --El Morya "There are no guarantees. From the viewpoint of fear, none are strong enough. From 
the viewpoint of love, none are necessary." --Emmanuel 
"Do not do tomorrow what you can do today. If you feel the need to forgive, forgive today. If you feel the need to risk, risk today. If you feel the need to apologize, apologize today. If you feel the need to love someone, love them today. If you feel the need to create something, create something today. 
If you do this there will be no conflict within, you will grow in Spirit because you will be your true authentic Self - living at full potential. 
Live today not for tomorrow." --Wallace Huey 
"Love is the key. If we start to express the spring of love within that is our true essence, our Truth, our spark of Divinity... and allow it to flow more... then all is  
 
revealed. Love becomes our guide in life, our connection with All, and our path back to Source." --Peter Shepherd 
"The most profound choice in life is to either accept things as they exist or to accept the responsibility for changing them." --from The Universal Traveler by Don Koberg and Jim Bagnall 
"Life simply is. It follows its course. Give yourself to the moment. Let life reveal itself to you." --Jerry Brown 
"Love is how it feels to recognize our essential unity. Awakening to oneness is the experience of Big Love. Knowing you are one with all, you find yourself in love with all." --Timothy Freke 
"We turn to God for help when our foundations are shaking, only to learn that it is God who is shaking them." --Charles C. West 
"If the only prayer you ever say in your entire life is thank you, it will be enough." -- Meister Eckhardt 
"If you concentrate on finding whatever is good in every situation, you will discover that your life will suddenly be filled with gratitude, a feeling that nurtures the soul." -- Rabbi Harold Kushner 
"The outer conditions of a person's life will always be found to reflect their inner beliefs." --James Allen 
"Your perception is your reality." --Matthias Dunlop 
"In our desire to impose form on the world and our lives we have lost the capacity to see the form that is already there; and in that lies not liberation but alienation, the cutting off from things as they really are." --Colin Gunton 
"Light that is One though the lamps be many." --Robin Williamson 
"I am grateful for life And all that I love I am grateful for the Earth And the Sun up above I am grateful for my spirit And my inner being For the One that I express And the joy of this feeling" 
--Owen Waters 
"You think of yourselves as humans searching for a spiritual awakening, when in fact you are spiritual beings attempting to cope with a human awakening. Seeing yourselves from the perspective of the spirit within will help you to remember why you came here and what you came here to do." --The Group 
"We are not human beings having a spiritual experience. We are spiritual beings having a human experience." --Teilhard de Chardin 
"I close my eyes in order to see." --Paul Gauguin "You are as old as God and as young as the morning." –Hilda Charlton 
"There is one river of Truth which receives tributaries from every side." –Clement of Alexandria 
"The search for wisdom is a great challenge; to act on wisdom is an even greater challenge." –Siddhaswarupananda 
"The moment one gives close attention to any thing, even a blade of grass, it becomes a mysterious, awesome, indescribably magnificent world in itself." –Henry Miller 
Prayer of St Francis: Lord, make me an instrument of your peace... 
Where there is hatred, let me sow love; Where there is injury, pardon; Where there is doubt, faith; Where there is despair, hope; 
Where there is darkness, light; Where there is sadness, joy; 
O Divine Master, grant that I may not so much seek to be consoled as to console; To be understood as to understand; To be loved as to love. 
For it is in giving that we receive; It is in pardoning that we are pardoned; And it is in dying that we are born to eternal life. 
"We start, then, with nothing, pure zero. But this is not the nothing of negation. For 'not' means 'other than,' and other is merely a synonym of the ordinal numeral second. As such it implies a first; while the present pure zero is prior to every first. The nothing of negation is the nothing of death, which comes second to, or after, everything. But this pure zero is the nothing of not having been born. There is no individual thing, no compulsion, outward nor inward, no law. It is the germinal nothing, in which the whole universe is involved or foreshadowed. As such, it is absolutely undefined and unlimited possibility --boundless possibility. There is no compulsion and no law. It is boundless freedom." --Charles S. Peirce 
"Love is unconditional acceptance. It is love of parents for child; also the non- possessive love of partners; also the caring love between all people that enables forgiveness. It's above energy, though it may be expressed energetically. It's our essential nature: Spirit itself, the quality we share with God. And it is the binding force of the Universe, inherent in all that is." --Peter Shepherd 
"Of the Good in you I can speak, but not of the Evil. For what is Good, tortured by it's own hunger and thirst? When Good is hungry, it seeks food, even in dark caves, and when it thirsts, it drinks even of dead waters." --Kahlil Gibran 
"To err is human; to forgive, divine." --Alexander Pope "Love... if you don't have it, no matter what else you may have, it's not enough." --Ann 
Lander 
"A person does not have to be behind bars to be a prisoner. People can be prisoners of their own concepts and ideas. They can be slaves to their own selves." --Maharaji 
"The ultimate lesson all of us have to learn is unconditional love, which includes not only others but ourselves as well." --Elisabeth Kubler Ross  
"All truly wise thoughts have been thought already thousands of times; but to make them truly ours, we must think them over again honestly, till they take root in our personal experience." --Johann von Goethe 
"When we feel passion for something, it is because we are remembering what it was that we came here to do. The more passion we feel, the more in alignment with Source we are, allowing this energy to pour through us with no hesitation. This is the way it was meant to be." --Karen Bishop 
"We need a renaissance of wonder. We need to renew, in our hearts and in our souls, the deathless dream, the eternal poetry, the perennial sense that life is miracle and magic." --E. Merrill Root 
"What is not brought to consciousness, comes to us as fate." --C. G. Jung "Go out looking for one thing, and that's all you'll ever find." --Robert Flaherty 
"Bring everything up to the surface. Accept your humanity, your animality. Whatsoever is there, accept it without any condemnation. Acceptance is transformation, because through acceptance awareness becomes possible." --Osho 
"Just as a candle cannot burn without fire, men cannot live without a spiritual life." -- Buddha 
"I believe that unarmed truth and unconditional love will have the final word in reality." 
--Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. "To be alive, to be able to see, to walk... it's all a miracle." --Arthur Rubinstein "True religion is the life we lead, not the creed we profess." --Louis Nizer 
"Know that although in the eternal scheme of things you are small, you are also unique and irreplaceable, as are all your fellow humans everywhere in the world." -- Margaret Laurence 
"I died from a mineral and plant became, 
Died from the plant, took a sentient frame; 
Died from the beast, donned a human dress - 
When by my dying did I ever grow less..." --Jalaluddin Rumi 
"A holy person is someone who is whole; who has, as it were, reconciled his opposites." --Alan Watts 
"Only that day dawns to which we are awake." --Henry David Thoreau "Reality is that which, when you stop believing in it, doesn't go away." –Philip K. Dick 
"At times of writing I never think what I have said before. My aim is not to be consistent with my previous statements on a given question, but to be consistent with truth as it may present itself to me at a given moment. The result has been that I have grown from truth to truth." –Mahatma Gandhi 
"Doing nothing is better than being busy doing nothing." –Lao Tzu 
"He who binds to himself a Joy, Does the winged life destroy; He who kisses the Joy as it flies, Lives in Eternity's sunrise." –William Blake  
"The door you open to give love is the very one through which love arrives." --Alan Cohen 
"Gratitude unlocks the fullness of life. It turns what we have into enough, and more. It turns denial into acceptance, chaos to order, confusion to clarity. It can turn a meal into a feast, a house into a home, a stranger into a friend. Gratitude makes sense of our past, brings peace for today, and creates a vision for tomorrow." --Melody Beattie 
"Generosity is another quality which, like patience, letting go, non-judging, and trust, provides a solid foundation for mindfulness practice." --Jon Kabat Zinn 
"Wise and strong is he who leaves his heart open and searches without fear." --The Monna 
"There are only four great questions in life: What is sacred? Of what is the spirit made? What is worth living for? What is worth dying for? The answer to all of them is the same: Only Love." --Johnny Depp, as Don Juan de Marco 
"Those of us who have transcended mythical belief systems know without any doubt that there is no God up in the sky. But when we awaken to what I call the evolutionary impulse - the mysterious passion to evolve, to become, to develop on every level--we rediscover who God is." --Andrew Cohen 
"We don't see things as they are. We see things as we are." --Anais Nin "Be kind whenever possible. It is always possible." --Dalai Lama 
"Only in quiet waters things mirror themselves undistorted. Only in a quiet mind is adequate perception of the world." --Hans Margolius 
"Love is what we were born with. Fear is what we learned here. The spiritual journey is the relinquishment, or unlearning, of fear and the acceptance of love back into our hearts." --Marianne Williamson 
"So many assume the truth is either black or white... It's all evolution or it's totally creation, for example. Reality creates consciousness; consciousness creates reality. Actually truth is inclusive, neither black nor white, nor a shade of grey. Indeed, truth is a multicolored spectrum, a beautiful hologram!" --Peter Shepherd 
"The truth in you remains as radiant as a star, as pure as light, as innocent as love itself." --James Lane Allen 
"Choose again. Pretend that you are enlightened. Pretend that you are loved by God. Pretend that you are perfect just the way you are. Take a deep breath now and PRETEND WHAT IS TRUE. Then everything will make sense. 
"When you pretend something that is true, then you immediately become that Truth. 
"First the energy of God descends upon the Earth, then it pretends whatever it wants to be, then it ascends back to its source. You are God pretending to be whatever you are right now. Do you understand what this means? You have allowed yourself to descend, but by pretending to be less than what you are, you have not ascended back to God." 
--Thomas (Indigo Child) 
"Love is much more fundamental than any kind of thinking or believing. It is the root and basis of who you are, at the most fundamental level. This means that anything other than love as an expression of your being is artificial and unnatural and is a result of not knowing who you are." --Bill Harris 
"Too Slow for those who Wait, Too Swift for those who Fear, Too Long for those who Grieve, Too Short for those who Rejoice, But for those who Love 
Time is not." 
--Henry Van Dyke 
"We are more than what we do... much more than what we accomplish... far more than what we possess." --William Arthur Ward 
"Your thoughts are like the seeds you plant in your garden. Your beliefs are like the soil in which you plant these seeds." --Louise Hay 
"In the province of the mind, what one believes to be true, either is true or becomes true." --John Lilly 
"Don't believe everything you think." 
"Some things have to be believed to be seen." --Ralph Hodgson, on ESP 
"Don't think you are, know you are!" --Morpheus, in the film Matrix 
"Perhaps the only limits to the human mind are those we believe in." --Willis Harman 
"We do not see things as they are. We see them as we are." --The Talmud 
"If the only prayer you said in your whole life was, 'thank you,' that would suffice." -- Meister Eckhart 
"There are two ways to slide easily through life: to believe everything or to doubt everything; both ways save us from thinking." --Alfred Korzybski 
"What is needed is not the will to believe but the will to find out, which is the exact opposite." --Bertrand Russell 
"The best and most beautiful things in the world cannot be seen, nor touched... but are felt in the heart." --Helen Keller 
"Asking the proper questions is the central action of transformation. Questions are the key that causes the secret doors of the psyche to swing open." --Clarissa Pinkola Estes 
"There's no beauty that you could perceive or create if it were not already within you..."--Peter Shepherd 
"What we see depends mainly on what we look for." --John Lubbock 
"Why is it that if someone tells you that there are  billion stars in the universe you will believe them but if they tell you a wall has wet paint you will have to touch it to be sure?" 
"Evil (ignorance) is like a shadow--it has no real substance of its own, it is simply a lack of light. You cannot cause a shadow to disappear by trying to fight it, stamp on it, by railing against it, or any other form of emotional or physical resistance. In order to cause a shadow to disappear, you must shine light on it."--Shakti Gawain 
"If there is light in the soul, There will be beauty in the person. If there is beauty in the person, There will be harmony in the house. If there is harmony in the house, There will be order in the nation. If there is order in the nation, There will be peace in the world." --Chinese Proverb 
"What we think is less than what we know; What we know is less than what we love; What we love is so much less than what there is. And to that precise extent we are so much less than what we are." --R.D. Laing (The Politics of Experience) 
"When we love, we are the universe and the universe lives in us." --O. Pirmez "The noblest pleasure is the joy of understanding." --Leonardo da Vinci 
"You live in illusions and the appearance of things. There is a Reality, you are that Reality. When you recognize this you will realize you are nothing, and being nothing, you are everything. That is all." --Kalu Rinpoche 
"If the doors of perception were cleansed, every thing would appear to man as it is, infinite." --William Blake 
"Man has no body distinct from his soul; for that called body is a portion of soul discerned by the five senses, the chief inlets of soul in this age." --William Blake 
"I sought my God and my God I could not find. I sought my soul and my soul eluded me. I sought my brother to serve him in his need, and I found all three--my God, my soul, and thee." 
"Gratitude is the heart's memory." --French Proverb "My religion is simple, my religion is kindness." --Dalai Llama 
"Faith is like a toothbrush. Every person should have one and use it regularly, but he shouldn't try to use someone else's." --J. G. Stipe 
"The Christian ideal has not been tried and found wanting. It has been found difficult and left untried." --G.K.Chesterton 
"Do not dwell in the past, do not dwell in the future, concentrate the mind on the present moment." --Buddha 
"What lies behind us and what lies before us are tiny matters compared to what lies within us." 
"This is my simple religion. There is no need for temples; no need for complicated philosophy. Our own brain, our own heart is our temple; the philosophy is kindness." --The Dalai Lama 
"We must never cease from exploration. And the end of all our exploring will be to arrive where we began and to know the place for the first time." --T.S. Eliot  
 
"To be identified with your mind is to be trapped in time: the compulsion to live almost exclusively through memory and anticipation. This creates an endless preoccupation with past and future and an unwillingness to honor and acknowledge the present moment and allow it to be. The compulsion arises because the past gives you an identity and the future holds the promise of salvation, of fulfillment in whatever form. Both are illusions." --Eckhart Tolle 
"Love is a force more formidable than any other. It is invisible, it cannot be seen or measured, yet it is powerful enough to transform you in a moment, and offer you more joy than any material possession could." --Barbara DeAngelis 
"My religion is simple, my religion is kindness." --Dalai Llama 
"As human beings we all want to be happy and free from misery... we have learned that the key to happiness is inner peace. The greatest obstacles to inner peace are disturbing emotions such as anger, attachment, fear and suspicion, while love and compassion and a sense of universal responsibility are the sources of peace and happiness." --Dalai Lama 
"God will become visible as God's image is reborn in you." --St. Bernard of Clairveux 
"The Spirit is neither good nor bad, it runs where the wild heart leads" 
"Wisdom begins in wonder." --Socrates 
"To speak gratitude is courteous and pleasant, to enact gratitude is generous and noble, but to live gratitude is to touch Heaven." --Johannes A. Gaertner 
"We can easily forgive a child who is afraid of the dark; the real tragedy is when men are afraid of the light." --Plato 
"The best way to know God is to love many things." --Vincent Van Gogh 
"Ideals are like stars; you will not succeed in touching them with your hands, but like the seafaring man on the desert of waters, you choose them as your guides, and following them, you reach your destiny." --Carl Schurz 
"Time is too slow for those who wait, too swift for those who fear, too long for those who grieve, too short for those who rejoice, but for those who love, time is eternity." -- Henry Van Dyke 
"The highest form of spiritual work is the realization of the essence of man.... You never learn the answer; you can only become the answer." --Richard Rose 
SUCCESS & ABUNDANCE 
"Enjoy the little things, for one day you may look back and realize they were the big things." --Robert Brault 
"Be ready when opportunity comes.... Luck is when preparation and opportunity meet." --Roy D. Chapin Jr. 
"Sooner or later, those who win are those who think they can." --Richard Bach "One important key to success is self-confidence. An important key to self-confidence 
is preparation." --Arthur Ashe "For myself I am an optimist - it does not seem to be much use being anything else." 
--Sir Winston Churchill "What a wonderful life I've had! I only wish I'd realized it sooner." --Colette 
"Acknowledging the good that you already have in your life is the foundation for all abundance." --Eckhart Tolle 
"What you get by achieving your goals is not as important as what you become by achieving your goals." --Zig Ziglar 
"Let us rise up and be thankful, for Gratitude is not only the greatest of virtues, but the parent of all the others." --Cicero 
"Both abundance and lack exist simultaneously in our lives, as parallel realities. It is always our conscious choice which secret garden we will tend... when we choose to be grateful for the abundance that's present -- love, health, family, friends, work, the joys of nature and personal pursuits that bring us pleasure -- the wasteland of lack falls away and we experience heaven on Earth." --Sarah Ban Breathnach  
 
"The height of your accomplishments is determined by the depth of your convictions." 
--William F. Scolavino 
"There are three kinds of people: those who let it happen, those who make it happen, and those who wonder what happened." --John Richardson 
"It is not in everyone's power to secure wealth, office, or honors; but everyone may be good, generous, and wise." --Luc De Clapiers 
"If you're never scared or embarrassed or hurt, it means you never take any chances." 
--Julia Sore 
"Being defeated is often only a temporary condition. Giving up is what makes it permanent." --Marilyn vos Savan 
"Some people say I have attitude - maybe I do. But I think you have to. You have to believe in yourself when no one else does - that makes you a winner right there." -- Venus Williams, US tennis champion 
"The tragedy of life doesn't lie in not reaching your goal. The tragedy lies in having no goal to reach." --Benjamin E. Mayes 
"Education is the great engine of personal development. It is through education that the daughter of a peasant can become a doctor, that the son of a mineworker can become the head of the mine, that a child of farm workers can become the president of a great nation. It is what we make out of what we have, not what we are given, that separates one person from another." --Nelson Mandela 
"View money and things not as something you create to fill a lack, but as tools to help you more fully express yourself and realize your potential." --Sanaya Roman and Duane Packer 
"Abilities wither under faultfinding, blossom with encouragement." --Donald A. Laird "We have to do the best we can. This is our sacred human responsibility." --Albert 
Einstein 
"When we feel stuck, going nowhere - even starting to slip backward - we may actually be backing up to get a running start." --Dan Millman 
"What is opportunity, and when does it knock? It never knocks. You can wait a whole lifetime, listening, hoping, and you will hear no knocking. None at all. You are opportunity, and you must knock on the door leading to your destiny." --Maxwell Maltz 
"Learn to expect, not to doubt. In so doing, you bring everything into the realm of possibility." --Dr. Norman Vincent Peale 
"Go out looking for one thing, and that's all you'll ever find." --Robert Flaherty "Money is neither my god nor my devil. It is a form of energy that tends to make us 
more of who we already are, whether it's greedy or loving." --Dan Millman "An investment in knowledge pays the best dividends." --Benjamin Franklin "The journey of a thousand miles must begin with a small step." --Chinese Proverb "A wise man should have money in his head, but not in his heart." --Jonathan Swift "Integrity is the essence of everything successful." --R. Buckminster Fuller  
"Money - like health, love, happiness, and all forms of success that you want to create for yourself - is the result of living purposefully. It is not a goal unto itself." --Dr. Wayne Dyer 
"The gratification of wealth is not found in mere possession or in lavish expenditure, but in its wise application." --Miguel de Cervantes 
"The real measure of your wealth is how much you'd be worth if you lost all your money." --unknown 
"Entrepreneurship is a state of mind, a can-do attitude, a capacity to focus on a vision and work toward it." --Barry Rogstad 
"I believe life is a series of near misses. A lot of what we ascribe to luck is not luck at all. It's seizing the day and accepting responsibility for your future. It's seeing what other people don't see and pursuing that vision." --Howard Schultz 
"Most powerful is he who has himself in his own power." --Seneca "Winners are losers who got up and gave it one more try." --Dennis DeYoung 
"Either you deal with what is the reality or you can be sure that the reality is going to deal with you." --Alex Haley 
"Unless you try to do something beyond what you have already mastered, you will never grow." --Ralph Waldo Emerson 
"The greater danger for most of us is not that our aim is too high and we miss it, but that it is too low and we reach it." --Michelangelo Buonarroti 
"Life is not measured by its length, but by its depth." --Ralph Waldo Emerson 
"The people who get on in this world are the people who get up and look for the circumstances they want and if they can't find them, they make them." --George Bernard Shaw 
"There is one quality which one must possess to win, and that is definiteness of purpose, the knowledge of what one wants, and a burning desire to possess it." -- Napoleon Hill 
"I can't change the direction of the wind, but I can adjust my sails to always reach my destination." --Jimmy Dean 
"Success is not the key to happiness. Happiness is the key to success. If you love what you are doing, you will be successful." --Herman Cain 
"A pessimist is one who makes difficulties of opportunities. An optimist makes opportunities of so-called difficulties." 
"Ships are safe within the harbor, but is that what ships are for?" 
"Action is a great restorer and builder of confidence. Inaction is not only the result, but the cause, of fear. Perhaps the action you take will be successful; perhaps different action or adjustments will have to follow. But any action is better than no action at all." --Norman Vincent Peale 
"Winners are the people who when the odds are stacked against them, and those around them have fallen, will have the courage to look within themselves and make the unbelieveable believeable, and the impossible possible." –C. Phillips  
"When you follow your bliss doors will open where you would not have thought there would be doors; and where there wouldn't be a door for anyone else." --Joseph Campbell 
"Let others lead small lives, but not you. Let others argue over small things, but not you. Let others cry over small hurts, but not you. Let others leave their future in someone else's hands, but not you." --Jim Rohn 
"Persistent people begin their success where others end in failure." --Edward Eggleston 
"Create a set of great personal values and surround yourself with the right people that can form your support system. Have an optimistic spirit and develop a strong purpose that you completely believe in and everything you can imagine is possible, for you." -- Andrew Horton 
"If you're going through hell, keep going." --Winston Churchill "Things that are impossible just take longer." --Ian Hickson "The darkest hour has only sixty minutes." --Morris Mandel 
"All I would tell people is to hold onto what was individual about themselves, not to allow their ambition for success to cause them to try to imitate the success of others. You've got to find it on your own terms." --Harrison Ford 
"Money like health, love, happiness, and all forms of success that you want to create for yourself is the result of living purposefully. It is not a goal unto itself." --Dr. Wayne Dyer 
"We make a living by what we get. We make a life by what we give." --Winston Churchill "Good instincts usually tell you what to do long before your head has figured it out." 
--Michael Burke 
"Though no one can go back and make a brand new start, anyone can start from now and make a brand new ending." --Carl Bard 
"It is good to dream, but it is better to dream and work. Faith is mighty, but action with faith is mightier. Desiring is helpful, but work and desire are invincible." --Thomas Robert Gaines 
"When the bull's-eye becomes as big in your mind as an elephant, you are sure to hit it." --Alejandro Jodorowsky 
"Optimism is the faith that leads to achievement. Nothing can be done without hope and confidence." --Helen Keller 
"The minute you settle for less than you deserve, you get even less than you settled for." --Maureen Dowd 
"Failure is the opportunity to begin again more intelligently." --Henry Ford "Luck is what happens when preparation meets opportunity." --Lucius Annaeus Seneca 
"The gem cannot be polished without friction, nor man perfected without trials." -- Chinese proverb 
"The two things I did learn were that you are as powerful and strong as you allow yourself to be, and that the most difficult part of any endeavor is taking the first step, making the first decision." --Robyn Davidson 
"Whether you be man or woman, you will never do anything in this world without courage. It is the greatest quality of the mind next to honor." –James Lane Allen 
"Optimism is essential to achievement and it is also the foundation of courage and true progress." –Nicholas Murray Butler 
"If successful people have one common trait, it's an utter lack of cynicism. The world owes them nothing. They go out and find what they need without asking for permission; they're driven, talented, and work through negatives by focusing on the positives." --Mike Zimmerman 
"It takes as much energy to wish as it does to plan." --Eleanor Roosevelt "The wise man bridges the gap by laying out the path by means of which he can get 
from where he is to where he wants to go." --John Pierpont Morgan "To accomplish great things, we must not only act, but also dream; not only plan, but 
also believe." --Anatole France 
"Trials, temptations, disappointments -- all these are helps instead of hindrances, if one uses them rightly. They not only test the fibre of a character, but strengthen it. Every conquered temptation represents a new fund of moral energy. Every trial endured and weathered in the right spirit makes a soul nobler and stronger than it was before." --James Buckham 
"If you have made mistakes there is always another chance for you... you may have a fresh start any moment you choose, for this thing we call failure is not the falling down, but the staying down." --Mary Pickford 
"Apathy can be overcome by enthusiasm, and enthusiasm can be aroused by two things: first, an idea which takes the imagination by storm; and second, a definite, intelligible plan for carrying that idea into action." 
–Henry Miller 
"Energy is the essence of life. Every day you decide how you're going to use it by knowing what you want and what it takes to reach that goal, and by maintaining focus." --Oprah Winfrey 
"You can't help someone get up a hill without getting closer to the top yourself." --H. Norman Schwarzkopf 
"Knowing is not enough; we must apply. Willing is not enough; we must do." --Johann von Goethe 
"Action is where it's at, as far as making dreams come true. We ourselves are the prime channel for our creations, so if we don't act but just wait, then we are blocking the channel. If we do act then we will be supported by all that we are connected to... which is All That Is if we act with love and service as our motivation." --Peter Shepherd 
"You are your own most important resource for making your life work. Life rewards action. Until your knowledge, awareness, insights, and understandings are translated into action, they are of no value." --Phillip C. McGraw 
"Be thankful for what you have; you'll end up having more. If you concentrate on what you don't have, you will never, ever have enough." --Oprah Winfrey 
"You don't get in life what you want. You get what you are." --Les Brown  
"Nothing is more endangered in the modern world than the powerful combination of hard work toward meaningful goals joined with an exuberant embrace of the present moment." --Tom Morris 
"It is not the strongest of the species that survive, nor the most intelligent, but the one most responsive to change." --Charles Darwin 
"All problems become smaller if you don't dodge them, but confront them." ---William F. Halsey 
"Life is mostly froth and bubble. Two things stand like stone: kindness in another's trouble, courage in our own." --Adam Gordon 
"That which does not kill you makes you stronger." --Neitzsche "It's easy to be brave from a safe distance." --Aesop 
"It's not because things are difficult that we do not dare; it's because we do not dare that they are difficult." --Seneca 
"Though no one can go back and make a brand new start, anyone can start from now and make a brand new ending." --Carl Bard 
"The pessimist sees difficulty in every opportunity. The optimist sees opportunity in every difficulty." --Winston Churchill 
"Experience is a hard teacher because she gives the test first, the lesson afterward." 
--Chinese Proverb 
"Experience is that marvelous thing that enables you to recognize a mistake when you make it again." --F. P. Jones 
"Only those who do nothing at all make no mistakes... but that would be a mistake." 
"Life is a leap into the unknown. If you want a guarantee, buy a toaster." 
--Bill Harris 
"Be master of your petty annoyances and conserve your energies for the big, worthwhile things. It isn't the mountain ahead that wears you out - it's the grain of sand in your shoe." --Robert Service 
"Destiny is as destiny does. If you believe you have no control, then you have no control." --Wess Roberts 
"Vision without action is a daydream; action without vision is a nightmare." -- Japanese proverb 
"Persistence. Nothing in the world can take the place of persistence. Talent will not; nothing is more common than unsuccessful men with talent. Genius will not; unrewarded genius is almost a proverb. Education will not; the world is full of educated derelicts. Persistence and determination alone are omnipotent. The slogan, 'Press on,' has solved and always will solve the problems of the human race." --Calvin Coolidge (President USA) 
"Courage is the mastery of fear, not the absence of fear." --Mark Twain "Be like a postage stamp. Stick to one thing until you get there." --Josh Billings "I couldn't wait for success....so I went ahead without it." --Jonathon Winters  
"If you can find a path with no obstacles, it probably doesn't lead anywhere." 
--Frank A. Clark 
"If you really want to do something, you'll find a way; if you don't, you'll find an excuse." 
"He who dares nothing need hope for nothing." 
"Far better is it to dare mighty things, to win glorious triumphs - even though checkered by failure - than to rank with those poor spirits who neither enjoy much nor suffer much, because they live in a gray twilight that knows not victory nor defeat." -- Theodore Roosevelt 
"A coward gets scared and quits. A hero gets scared, but still goes on." 
"Healing comes from taking responsibility: to realize that it is you - and no one else - that creates your thoughts, your feelings, and your actions." --Peter Shepherd 
"Life is a journey and if you fall in love with the journey you will be in love forever." -- Peter Hagerty 
"When you return to your old hometown, you find it wasn't the town you missed, but your childhood." --Earl Wilson 
"As we grow old, the beauty steals inward." --Ralph Waldo Emerson "Life begins as a quest of the child for the man, and ends as a journey by the man to 
rediscover the child." --Sam Ewing "Ultimately your greatest teacher is to live with an open heart." --Emmanuel (Pat 
Rodegast) "Doing what you like is freedom. Liking what you do is happiness." --Frank Tyger "We forge the chains we wear in life." --Charles Dickens 
"If you look to others for fulfillment, you will never be fulfilled. If your happiness depends on money, you will never be happy with yourself. Be content with what you have; rejoice in the way things are. When you realize there is nothing lacking, the world belongs to you." --Lao Tzu 
"Everything is a gift of the universe--even joy, anger, jealously, frustration, or separateness. Everything is perfect either for our growth or our enjoyment." --Ken Keyes Jr. 
"There is no such thing as a problem without a gift for you in its hands. You seek problems because you need their gifts." --Richard Bach 
"If you want to be happy, set a goal that commands your thoughts, liberates your energy, and inspires your hopes." --Andrew Carnegie 
"Tension is who you think you should be, relaxation is who you are." --Ancient Chinese Proverb 
"I believe the recipe for happiness to be just enough money to pay the monthly bills you acquire, a little surplus to give you confidence, a little too much work each day, enthusiasm for your work, a substantial share of good health, a couple of real friends and a wife and children to share life's beauty with you." --J. Kenfield Morley 
"For me it is sufficient to have a corner by my hearth, a book and a friend, and a nap undisturbed by creditors or grief." --Fernandez de Andrada "You cannot judge what should bring others joy, and others cannot judge what should bring you joy." --Alan Cohen 
"The art of living lies less in eliminating our troubles than growing with them." -- Bernard M. Baruch 
"Be happy with what you have. Be excited about what you want." --Alan Cohen 
"Our capacity to draw happiness from aesthetic objects or material goods in fact seems critically dependent on our first satisfying a more important range of emotional or psychological needs, among them the need for understanding, for love, expression and respect." --Alain De Botton 
"If you start to think the problem is 'out there,' stop yourself. That thought is the problem." --Stephen Covey 
"Happiness cannot be traveled to, owned, earned, worn or consumed. Happiness is the spiritual experience of living every minute with love, grace, and gratitude." --Denis Waitley 
"Happiness is not a station you arrive at, but a manner of traveling." --Margaret Lee Runbeck 
"Happiness is the meaning and the purpose of life, the whole aim and end of human existence." --Aristotle 
"Security is when everything is settled, when nothing can happen to you; security is the denial of life." --Germaine Greer 
"Focus on the journey, not the destination. Joy is found not in finishing an activity but in doing it." --Greg Anderson 
"Thousands of candles can be lit from a single candle, and the life of the candle will not be shortened. Happiness never decreases by being shared." --Buddha 
"The best remedy for those who are afraid, lonely or unhappy is to go outside, somewhere where they can be quiet, alone with the heavens, nature and God. As long as this exists, and it certainly always will, then there will be comfort for every sorrow, whatever the circumstances may be." --Anne Frank 
"In our lives, change is unavoidable, loss is unavoidable. In the adaptability and ease with which we experience change, lies our happiness and freedom." --Buddha  
"Live with intention. Walk to the edge. Listen hard. Practice wellness. Play with abandon. Laugh. Choose with no regret. Do what you love. Live as if this is all there is." --Mary Anne Roadacher-Hershey 
"You never regret being kind." --Nicole Shepherd "They who can give up essential liberty to obtain a little temporary safety, deserve 
neither liberty nor safety." --Ben Franklin "Forgiveness does not change the past, but it does enlarge the future." --Paul Boese 
"The secret of health for both mind and body is not to mourn for the past, worry about the future, or anticipate troubles, but to live in the present moment wisely and earnestly." --Buddha 
"True happiness is not attained through self-gratification, but through fidelity to a worthy purpose." --Helen Keller 
"Most of us miss out on life's big prizes. The Pulitzer. The Nobel. Oscars. The World Cup. But we're all eligible for life's smaller prizes... A pat on the back. A kiss behind the ear. A four-pound bass. A full moon. An empty parking space. A crackling fire. A great meal. A glorious sunset. Hot soup. Cold beer." --Unknown 
"Money is neither my god nor my devil. It is a form of energy that tends to make us more of who we already are, whether it's greedy or loving." --Dan Millman 
"The need for forgiveness is an illusion. There is nothing to forgive." --Rachel England "Blessed are those who can give without remembering and take without forgetting." -- 
Bernard Meltzer 
"Reflect upon you present blessings, of which every man has many - not on your past misfortunes, of which all men have some." --Charles Dickens 
"Even a happy life cannot be without a measure of darkness, and the word happy would lose its meaning if it were not balanced by sadness. It is far better to take things as they come along with patience and equanimity." --Carl Jung 
"Much of the stress that people feel doesn't come from having too much to do. It comes from not finishing what they've started." --David Allen 
"He who lives in harmony with himself lives in harmony with the universe." --Marcus Aurelius 
"If you want others to be happy, practice compassion. If you want to be happy, practice compassion." --Dalai Lama 
"All the world's a stage, and the men and women merely players. They have their exits and their entrances; and one man in his time plays many parts." --William Shakespeare 
"Dream as if you'll live forever, live as if you'll die today." --James Dean "When one door of happiness closes, another opens, but often we look so long at the 
closed door that we do not see the one that has been opened for us." --Helen Keller "Happiness is not having what you want. It is appreciating what you have." --Unknown 
"True happiness... arises, in the first place, from the enjoyment of one's self." --Joseph Addison  
"Happiness is that state of consciousness which proceeds from the achievement of one's values." --Ayn Rand 
"All this world is but a play... be thou the joyful player." --Robin Williamson 
"Life is an opportunity, benefit from it. Life is beauty, admire it. Life is bliss, taste it. Life is a dream, realize it. 
Life is a challenge, meet it. Life is a duty, complete it. Life is a game, play it. Life is a promise, fulfill it. Life is sorrow, overcome it. Life is a song, sing it. 
Life is a struggle, accept it. Life is a tragedy, confront it. Life is an adventure, dare it. Life is luck, make it. Life is too precious, do not destroy it. 
Life is life, fight for it." 
--Mother Teresa Most of us are just about as happy as we make up our minds to be. –William Adams 
"Success is getting what you want. Happiness is wanting what you get." --Dale Carnegie 
"We can have peace if we let go of wanting to change the past and wanting to control the future." --Lester Levinson 
"We make a living by what we get, we make a life by what we give." --Winston Churchill "Money doesn't bring happiness and creativity. Your creativity and happiness brings 
money." --Sam Rosen 
"Happiness is the experience of loving life. Being happy is being in love with that momentary experience. And love is looking at someone or even something and seeing the absolute best in him/her or it. Love is happiness with what you see. So love and happiness really are the same thing... just expressed differently." --Robert McPhillips 
"Everything that irritates us about others can lead us to an understanding of ourselves." --Carl Jung 
"God comforts the disturbed and disturbs the comfortable." 
"Carefully watch your THOUGHTS, for they become your WORDS. Manage and watch your WORDS, for they will become your ACTIONS. Consider and judge your ACTIONS, for they have become your HABITS. Acknowledge and watch your HABITS, for they shall become your VALUES. Understand and embrace your VALUES, for they become YOUR DESTINY." --Mahatma Gandhi 
"Wisdom is knowing what path to take next... Integrity is taking it." 
"God, grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, the courage to change the things I can, and the wisdom to know the difference." --Reinhold Niebuhr 
"I am not bound to win, I am bound to be true. I am not bound to succeed, but I am bound to live up to the light I have." --Abraham Lincoln  
 
"Gratitude unlocks the fullness of life. It turns what we have into enough, and more. It turns denial into acceptance, chaos to order, confusion to clarity. It can turn a meal into a feast, a house into a home, a stranger into a friend. Gratitude makes sense of our past, brings peace for today, and creates a vision for tomorrow." --Melody Beattie 
"We all get report cards in many different ways, but the real excitement of what you're doing is in the doing of it. It's not what you're gonna get in the end - it's not the final curtain - it's really in the doing it, and loving what you're doing." --Ralph Lauren 
"Happiness in life is not measured by the things we achieve, the places we go, or the route that we take to get there. Happiness in life is measured by the people that we share all of our experiences with." --Chris Needham 
"There is no stress in the world, only people thinking stressful thoughts and then acting on them." --Dr. Wayne Dyer 
"In the midst of movement and chaos, keep stillness inside of you." --Deepak Chopra 
"Everything is a gift of the universe - even joy, anger, jealously, frustration, or separateness. Everything is perfect either for our growth or our enjoyment." --Ken Keyes Jr. 
"We fear that we are inadequate, but our deepest fear is that we are powerful beyond measure. It is our light, not our darkness, that most frightens us. We ask ourselves: "Who am I to be brilliant, gorgeous, talented, fabulous?" 
Actually, who are you not to be these things? You are a child of God. Your playing small doesn't serve the world. There is nothing enlightening about shrinking so that other people around you won't feel insecure. 
We are all meant to shine as children do. We are born to manifest the glory of God that is within us. It is not just in some of us; it is in everyone. And as we let our light shine, we unconsciously give other people permission to do the same. As we are liberated from our own fear, our presence automatically releases others." --Marriane Williamson, from 'A Return to Love'. 
"A smile is a curve that sets everything straight." --Phyllis Diller "There is only one thing more painful than learning from experience and that is not 
learning from experience." --Archibald McLeish "Once you do something you love, you never have to work again." --Willie Hill 
"Take time to work - it is the price of success Take time to think - it is the source of power Take time to play - it is the secret of perpetual youth Take time to read - it is the fountain of wisdom Take time to be friendly - it is the road to happiness Take time to love and be loved - it is the nourishment of the soul Take time to share - it is too short a life to be selfish Take time to laugh - it is the music of the heart Take time to dream - it is hitching your wagon to a star." --anonymous 
"Anything in life that we don't accept will simply make trouble for us until we make peace with it." --Shakti Gawain 
"The right way is not always the popular and easy way. Standing for right when it is unpopular is a true test of moral character." --Margaret Chase Smith 
"Persons of high self-esteem are not driven to make themselves superior to others; they do not seek to prove their value by measuring themselves against a comparative standard. Their joy is being who they are, not in being better than someone else." -- Nathaniel Branden 
"Anxiety is the dizziness of freedom." --Soren Kierkegaard "Do what you have always done and you'll get what you have always got." --Sue 
Knight 
"The happiness of life is made up of the little charities of a kiss or smile, a kind look, a heartfelt compliment." --Samuel Taylor Coleridge 
"We avoid the things that we're afraid of because we think there will be dire consequences if we confront them. But the truly dire consequences in our lives come from avoiding things that we need to learn about or discover." --Shakti Gawain (The Path of Transformation) 
"If we become uncomfortable in any given moment, we can look at a flower, a pebble in the street or the tire on our car and be grateful. We can gaze at a person in the distance or at a cloud in the sky and be appreciative. We can smile at a stranger, hug someone we know or tidy a disorganized shelf and be thankful for the opportunity. If we choose gratitude, we will be happy!" --Barry Neil Kaufman 
"Life isn't measured by the breaths you take, but by the moments that take your breath away." 
"Think of what you have rather than of what you lack. Of the things you have, select the best and then reflect how eagerly you would have sought them if you did not have them." --Marcus Aurelius 
"Happiness is where we find it, but very rarely where we seek it." --J. Petit Senn 
"To be content means that you realize you contain what you seek." --Alan Cohen 
"Today is the tomorrow you worried about yesterday. Was it worth it?" 
"The mind is its own place, and in itself can make a heaven of hell, a hell of heaven." 
--John Milton 
"Both abundance and lack exist simultaneously in our lives, as parallel realities. It is always our conscious choice which secret garden we will tend...when we choose not to focus on what is missing from our lives but are grateful for the abundance that's present--love, health, family, friends, work, the joys of nature and personal pursuits that bring us pleasure--the wasteland of illusion falls away and we experience Heaven on earth." --Sarah Ban Breathnach 
"The moment one gives close attention to anything, even a blade of grass, it becomes a mysterious, awesome, indescribably magnificent world in itself." --Henry Miller 
"God, grant me serenity to accept the things I cannot change, courage to change the things I can, and wisdom to know the difference." --Reinhold Niebuhr 
"That which does not kill you makes you stronger." --Neitzsche  
 
"Boredom is the feeling that everything is a waste of time; serenity, that nothing is." -- Thomas Szasz 
"In our daily lives, we must see that it is not happiness that makes us grateful, but the gratefulness that makes us happy." --Albert Clarke 
"A man who does simply what is required of him will never know peace; for that, he must do all that he can." 
"Look at everything as though you were seeing it either for the first or last time. Then your time on earth will be filled with glory." --Betty Smith 
"You are responsible for your life. You can't keep blaming somebody else for your dysfunction. Life is really about moving on." --Oprah Winfrey 
Four Lessons on Life: 
. Never take down a fence until you know why it was put up. 
. If you get too far ahead of the army, your soldiers may mistake you for the enemy. 
. Don't complain about the bottom rungs of the ladder; they helped to get you higher. 
. If you want to enjoy the rainbow, be prepared to endure the storm. --Warren Wiersbe (On Being a Servant of God) 
"Expecting life to treat you well because you are a good person is like expecting an angry bull not to charge because you are a vegetarian." --Shari R. Barr 
"View life as a series of movie frames, the ending and meaning may not be apparent until the very end of the movie, and yet, each of the hundreds of individual frames has meaning within the context of the whole movie. 
"View your life from your funeral, looking back at your life experiences, what have you accomplished? what would you have wanted to accomplish but didn't? what were the happy moments? what were the sad? what would you do again, and what you wouldn't?" --Victor Frankl 
"You are up and you are happy. You are down and you are sad. All ups and downs help you to find a balance in your being. This is what life is all about. Once balanced, no more ups and downs, but bliss and joy and silence and gratitude." --Tishan 
"Yesterday is the past. Tomorrow is the future. Today is a gift and that's why we call it the present." 
"He who dares nothing need hope for nothing." 
"Far better is it to dare mighty things, to win glorious triumphs - even though checkered by failure - than to rank with those poor spirits who neither enjoy much nor suffer much, because they live in a gray twilight that knows not victory nor defeat." -- Theodore Roosevelt 
"A coward gets scared and quits. A hero gets scared, but still goes on." 
"Communication is the solvent of all problems and is the foundation for personal development." --Peter Shepherd 
"A good listener is not only popular everywhere, but after a while he knows something." --Wilson Mizner 
"Nothing lowers the level of conversation more than raising the voice." --Stanley Horowitz 
"What greater thing is there for two human souls than to feel that they are joined... to strengthen each other... to be at one with each other in silent unspeakable memories." --George Eliot 
"Love is like the truth, sometimes it prevails, and sometimes it hurts." --Victor M. Garcia Jr. 
"To love leaves us open to loss. But we do it to ourselves because it is worth it." -- from Lark Rise to Candleford (BBC drama) 
"An open ear is the only believable sign of an open heart." --David Augsburger "At the touch of love, everyone becomes a poet." --Plato 
"People who do not understand you will never settle for any proof, and people who appreciate you do not need any proof. " --Seth (Jane Roberts) 
"It is much easier to be critical than to be correct." --Benjamin Disraeli "Love can make a summer fly, or a night seem like a lifetime." --Andrew Lloyd Webber 
"Someone's opinion of you does not have to become your reality." --Les Brown "Everything that irritates us about others can lead us to an understanding of 
ourselves." --Carl Jung "What is most beautiful in virile men is something feminine; what is most beautiful in 
feminine women is something masculine." --Susan Sontag "No one can make you feel inferior without your consent." --Eleanor Roosevelt 
"Have the courage to be sincere, clear and honest. This opens the door to deeper communication all around. It creates self-empowerment and the kind of connections with others we all want in life. Speaking from the heart frees us from the secrets that burden us. These secrets are what make us sick or fearful. Speaking truth helps you get clarity on your real heart directives." --Sara Paddison 
"Abilities wither under faultfinding, blossom with encouragement." --Donald A. Laird 
"Oh the comfort, the inexpressible comfort of feeling safe with a person, having neither to weigh thoughts nor measure words, but pouring them all right out, just as they are - chaff and grain together - certain that a faithful hand will take and sift them, keep what is worth keeping, and with the breath of kindness blow the rest away." -- Dinah Craik 
"When you like someone, you like them in spite of their faults. When you love someone, you love them with their faults." --Elizabeth Cameron 
"People change and forget to tell each other." --Lillian Hellman "If you love somebody, let them go, for if they return, they were always yours. And if 
they don't, they never were" --Kahlil Gibran "Friendship with one's self is all important, because without it one cannot be friends 
with anyone else in the world." --Eleanor Roosevelt "Forgiveness is the attribute of the strong." --Mahatma Gandhi 
"Love and concern for all are not things some of us are born with and others are not. Rather, they are results of what we do with our minds: We can choose to transform our minds so that they embody love, or we can allow them to develop habits and false concepts of separation." --Sharon Salzbert 
"Wise men speak because they have something to say; fools because they have to say something." --Plato 
"Good friendships are fragile things and require as much care as any other fragile and precious thing." --Randolph S. Bourne 
"The result of our people-judgments is that we often throw away someone's ideas because they are voiced by the wrong person or because we don't agree with all of their ideas." --Thayer White 
"A friend hears the song in my heart and sings it to me when my memory fails." -- Unknown 
"The people who matter will recognize who you are." --Alan Cohen "If you want to go quickly, go alone. If you want to go far, go together." --African 
proverb "With the gift of listening comes the gift of healing." --Catherine de Hueck  
"Love is touching souls." --Joni Mitchell 
"A friend is one that knows you as you are, understands where you have been, accepts what you have become, and still, gently allows you to grow." --William Shakespeare 
"Criticism is something we can avoid easily --by saying nothing, doing nothing, and being nothing." --Aristotle 
"Real love takes work. You have to be willing to make the effort." --Rabbi Weinberg "There is harmony in the tension of opposites, as in the case of the bow and lyre." -- 
Heraclitus 
"Life has taught us that love does not consist in gazing at each other, but in looking outward together in the same direction." --Antoine de Saint-Exupery 
"The happiness of life is made up of the little charities of a kiss or smile, a kind look, a heartfelt compliment." --Samuel Taylor Coleridge 
"What most people need to learn in life is how to love people and use things instead of using people and loving things." 
"The consciousness of loving and being loved brings a warmth and richness to life that nothing else can bring." --Oscar Wilde 
"The wise stand out because they see themselves as part of the Whole. They shine because they don't want to impress. They achieve great things because they don't look for recognition. Their wisdom is contained in what they are, not their opinions. They refuse to argue, so no-one argues with them." --Lao Tzu 
"The judgement of others does not change who I am. Quite the opposite is true. It reveals who they are." --Terry McPhearson 
"Speaking with kindness creates confidence, thinking with kindness creates profoundness, giving with kindness creates love." --Lao Tseu 
"A friend is a person with whom I may be honest. Before him, I may think aloud." -- Ralph Waldo Emerson 
"Talk sense to a fool and he calls you foolish." --Euripedes "If you tell the truth, you don't have to remember anything." --Mark Twain 
"A friend is someone who knows the song of your soul and sings it back to you when you've forgotten the words." 
"The real art of conversation is not only to say the right thing at the right time, but also to leave unsaid the wrong thing at the tempting moment." 
"We would not have to forgive people if we didn't judge them in the first place." --Barry Neil Kaufman 
"Make new friends, but keep the old. One is silver, the other gold." 
"To avoid criticism, do nothing, say nothing, be nothing." --Elbert Hubbard "When someone's character seems impossible to fathom, observe his friends." -- 
Japanese proverb 
"A true friend is someone who understands your past, believes in your future and accepts you today, just the way you are."  
"The consciousness of loving and being loved brings a warmth and richness to life that nothing else can bring." --Oscar Wilde 
"If someone does not smile at you, be generous and offer your own smile. Nobody needs a smile more than the one that cannot smile to others." --Dalai Lama 
"If we don't believe in freedom of expression for people we despise, we don't believe in it at all." --Noam Chomsky 
"No act of kindness, however small, is ever wasted." --Aesop "I've learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what you did, but 
people will never forget how you made them feel." --Maya Angelou 
"The secret of attraction is to love yourself. Attractive people judge neither themselves nor others. They are open to gestures of love. They think about love, and express their love in every action. They know that love is not a mere sentiment, but the ultimate truth at the heart of the universe." --Deepak Chopra 
"Don't rob a friend, a partner, family member or the world of someone that could have been a real companion, and someone that could make a difference. Don't ever give up being special!" --Willy Conradie 
"That's what real love amounts to - letting a person be what he really is. Most people love you for who you pretend to be. To keep their love, you keep pretending - performing. You get to love your pretense. It's true, we're locked in an image, an act - and the sad thing is, people get so used to their image, they grow attached to their masks. They love their chains. They forget all about who they really are. And if you try to remind them, they hate you for it, they feel like you're trying to steal their most precious possession." --Jim Morrison 
"In the midst of great joy, do not promise anyone anything. In the midst of great anger, do not answer anyone's letter." --Chinese proverb 
"Deal with the faults of others as gently as with your own." --Chinese proverb "We would not have to forgive people if we didn't judge them in the first place." --Barry 
Neil Kaufman "Sentimentality - that's what we call the sentiment we don't share." --Graham Green 
"Once the realization is accepted that even between the closest human beings infinite distance continues to exist, a wonderful living side-by-side can grow up, if they succeed in loving the distance between them which makes it possible for each to see the other whole and against a wide sky." --Rainer Maria Rilke 
"Great minds discuss ideas. Average minds discuss events. Small minds discuss people." 
"Courage is not the absence of fear, but rather the judgment that something else is more important than fear." --Ambrose Redmoon 
"It is your decisions not your conditions that truly shape the quality of your life." -- Anthony Robbins 
"Life is found in the dance between your deepest desire and your greatest fear." -- Anthony Robbins 
"How do we keep our inner fire alive? Two things, at minimum, are needed: an ability to appreciate the positives in our life - and a commitment to action. Every day, it's important to ask and answer these questions: 'What's good in my life?' and 'What needs to be done?'" --Nathaniel Branden 
"The price of excellence is discipline; the cost of mediocrity is disappointment." -- William Arthur Ward 
"If we had no winter, the spring would not be so pleasant; if we did not sometimes taste of adversity, prosperity would not be so welcome." --Anne Bradstreet 
"Sometimes our fate resembles a fruit tree in winter. Who would think that those branches would turn green again and blossom, but we hope it, we know it." --Johann Wolfgang von Goethe 
"Even if you encounter opposition, have conviction and finish what you start. In the end, people will understand." --Kotaku Wamura (Mayor of Japanese village who built a  
sea wall, against many protests, which recently saved the town when the tsunami hit NE Japan) 
"My grandfather once told me that there were two kinds of people: those who do the work and those who take the credit. He told me to try to be in the first group; there was much less competition." --Indira Gandhi 
"A moment of choice is a moment of truth. It's the testing point of our character and competence." --Stephen Covey 
"If your ship doesn't come in, swim out to it!" --Jonathan Winters "If doubt is challenging you and you do not act, doubts will GROW. Challenge the 
doubts with action and YOU will grow." --John Kanary 
"Those who turn good organizations into great organizations are motivated by a deep creative urge and an inner compulsion for sheer unadulterated excellence for its own sake." --Jim Collins 
"Compromise: The art of dividing a cake in such a way that everybody believes he got the biggest piece." --Sherry Rothfield 
"We cannot direct the wind but we can adjust the sails." --anonymous "Life's not about waiting for the storms to pass... it's about learning to dance in the 
rain." --B.J. Gallagher "When you reach the end of your rope, tie a knot in it and hang on." --Thomas 
Jefferson 
"Power is of two kinds. One is obtained by the fear of punishment and the other by acts of love. Power based on love is a thousand times more effective and permanent than the one derived from fear of punishment." --Mahatma Gandhi 
"Keep your thoughts positive because your thoughts become your words. Keep your words positive because your words become your behaviors. Keep your behaviors positive because your behaviors become your habits. Keep your habits positive because your habits become your values. Keep your values positive because your values become your destiny." --Gandhi 
"A smooth sea never made a skilled mariner." --English proverb "Great masters merit emulation, not worship." --Alan Cohen 
"Clear, written goals have a wonderful effect on your thinking. They motivate you and galvanize you into action. They stimulate your creativity, release your energy, and help you to overcome procrastination as much as any other factor." --Brian Tracy 
"Planning is bringing the future into the present so that you can do something about it now." --Alan Lakein 
"Confidence is contagious. So is the lack of confidence." --Vince Lombardi "Optimism may sometimes be delusional, but pessimism is always delusional." --Alan 
Cohen 
"Few things help an individual more than to place responsibility upon them and to let them know that you trust them." --Booker T. Washington  
"We are continually faced with great opportunities which are brilliantly disguised as unsolvable problems." --Margaret Mead 
"Long-range goals keep you from being frustrated by short-term failures." --James Cash Penney 
"If you just set out to be liked, you would be prepared to compromise on anything at any time, and you would achieve nothing." --Margaret Thatcher 
"You may be disappointed if you fail, but you are doomed if you don't try." --Beverly Sills 
"We can do anything we want to as long as we stick to it long enough." --Helen Keller 
"In organizations, real power and energy is generated through relationships. The patterns of relationships and the capacities to form them are more important than tasks, functions, roles, and positions." --Margaret Wheatley 
"It's not differences that divide us. It's our judgments about each other that do." -- Margaret Wheatley 
"You have within you right now, everything you need to deal with whatever the world can throw at you." --Brian Tracy 
"There will come a time when you believe everything is finished. That will be the beginning." --Louis L'Amour 
"It is understanding that gives us an ability to have peace. When we understand the other fellow's viewpoint, and he understands ours, then we can sit down and work out our differences." --Harry S. Truman 
"Nearly all men can stand adversity, but if you want to test a man's character, give him power." --Abraham Lincoln 
"Freedom is actually a bigger game than power. Power is about what you can control. Freedom is about what you can unleash." --Harriet Rubin 
"Destiny is not a matter of chance, it is a matter of choice; it is not a thing to be waited for, it is a thing to be achieved." --William Jennings Bryan The ultimate measure of man is not where he stands in moments of comfort and convenience, but where he stands at times of challenge and controversy. --Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. 
"Management is doing things right; leadership is doing the right things." --Peter F. Drucker 
"Don't tell people how to do things, tell them what to do and let them surprise you with their results." --George S. Patton 
"A leader is a dealer in hope." --Napoleon Bonaparte "The very essence of leadership is that you have to have vision. You can't blow an 
uncertain trumpet." --Theodore M. Hesburgh 
"The best executive is the one who has sense enough to pick good men to do what he wants done, and self-restraint to keep from meddling with them while they do it." -- Theodore Roosevelt 
"A leader is one who sees more than others see, who sees farther than others see, and who sees before others see." --Leroy Eimes  
 
"The task of the leader is to get his people from where they are to where they have not been." --Henry Kissinger 
"Great leaders are almost always great simplifiers, who can cut through argument, debate, and doubt to offer a solution everybody can understand." --General Colin Powell 
"In periods where there is no leadership, society stands still. Progress occurs when courageous, skillful leaders seize the opportunity to change things for the better." -- Harry Truman 
"The leader is one who mobilizes others toward a goal shared by leader and followers." --Gary Wills 
"Leadership is lifting a person's vision to higher sights, the raising of a person's performance to a higher standard, the building of a personality beyond its normal limitations." --Peter F. Drucker 
"Leadership is getting people to work for you when they are not obligated." --Fred Smith 
"My own definition of leadership is this: The capacity and the will to rally men and women to a common purpose and the character which inspires confidence."" -- General Montgomery 
"I think leadership comes from integrity - that you do whatever you ask others to do. I think there are non-obvious ways to lead. Just by providing a good example as a parent, a friend, a neighbor makes it possible for other people to see better ways to do things. Leadership does not need to be a dramatic, fist in the air and trumpets blaring, activity." --Scott Berkun 
"Before you are a leader, success is all about growing yourself. When you become a leader, success is all about growing others." --Jack Welch 
"The leader has to be practical and a realist, yet must talk the language of the visionary and the idealist." --Eric Hoffer 
"Nearly all men can stand adversity, but if you want to test a man's character, give him power." --Abraham Lincoln 
"Am I not destroying my enemies when I make friends of them?" --Abraham Lincoln "Anyone who has never made a mistake has never tried anything new." --Albert 
Einstein 
"Any fool can criticize, condemn, and complain, and most fools do." --Benjamin Franklin 
"Beware of little expenses. A small leak will sink a big ship." --Benjamin Franklin "He that is of the opinion money will do everything may well be suspected of doing 
everything for money." --Benjamin Franklin "First ask yourself: What is the worst that can happen? Then prepare to accept it. Then 
proceed to improve on the worst." --Dale Carnegie "If you want to gather honey, don't kick over the beehive." --Dale Carnegie 
"You can make more friends in two months by becoming interested in other people than you can in two years by trying to get other people interested in you." --Dale Carnegie 
"Most of the important things in the world have been accomplished by people who have kept on trying when there seemed to be no hope at all." --Dale Carnegie 
"An intellectual is a man who takes more words than necessary to tell more than he knows." --Dwight D. Eisenhower 
"Farming looks mighty easy when your plow is a pencil and you're a thousand miles from the corn field." --Dwight D. Eisenhower 
"To be prepared for war is one of the most effective means of preserving peace." -- George Washington 
"Few men have virtue to withstand the highest bidder." --George Washington 
"If you once forfeit the confidence of your fellow citizens, you can never regain their respect and esteem. You may fool all of the people some of the time; you can even fool some of the people all the time; but you can't fool all of the people all of the time." -- Abraham Lincoln 
"Leadership is the art of getting someone else to do something you want done because he wants to do it." --Dwight D. Eisenhower 
"You cannot shake hands with a clenched fist." --Golda Meir 
"I can honestly say that I was never affected by the question of the success of an undertaking. If I felt it was the right thing to do, I was for it regardless of the possible outcome." --Golda Meir 
"Failure is only the opportunity to begin again more intelligently." --Henry Ford "Associate yourself with men of good quality if you esteem your own reputation, for 
'tis better to be alone than in bad company." --George Washington "The price of greatness is responsibility." --Winston Churchill 
"The greatest lesson in life is to know that even fools are right sometimes." --Winston Churchill 
"It is a mistake to look too far ahead. Only one link in the chain of destiny can be handled at a time." --Winston Churchill 
"If you want to get somewhere you have to know where you want to go and how to get there. Then never, never, never give up." --Norman Vincent Peale 
"We must find time to stop and thank the people who have made a difference in our lives." --Dan Zadra 
"To lead people, walk beside them... As for the best leaders, the people do not notice their existence. The next best, the people honor and praise. The next, the people fear; and the next, the people hate. When the best leader's work is done the people say, 'We did it ourselves'." --Lao Tzu 
"The consequence of living our lives at warp speed is that we rarely take time to reflect on what we value most deeply or to keep these priorities front and center. Most of us spend more time reacting to immediate crises and responding to expectations from  
 
others than we do making considered choices guided by what matters most to us." -- Jim Loehr and Tony Schwartz, The Power Of Full Engagement 
"Conviction is worthless unless it is converted into conduct." --Thomas Carlye "Courage is doing what you are afraid to do. There can be no courage without fear." -- 
P. Hayes 
"Entrepreneurship is a state of mind, a can-do attitude, a capacity to focus on a vision and work toward it." --Barry Rogstad 
"Many of our fears are tissue paper thin, and a single courageous step would carry us clear through them." --Brendan Francis 
"Nothing in life is to be feared. It is only to be understood." --Marie Curie "If your actions inspire others to do more, to learn more, to dream more or to become 
more, you are a leader." --John Quincy Adams "When we accept tough jobs as a challenge to our ability and wade into them with joy 
and enthusiasm, miracles can happen." --Arland Gilbert "It takes as much energy to wish as it does to plan." --Eleanor Roosevelt 
"The wise man bridges the gap by laying out the path by means of which he can get from where he is to where he wants to go." --John Pierpont Morgan 
"A smooth sea never made a skilled mariner." --English proverb "The question in life is not whether you get knocked down. You will. The question is, 
are you ready to get back up... and fight for what you believe in?" --Dan Quayle "Out of clutter, find simplicity. From discord, find harmony. In the middle of difficulty 
lies opportunity." --Albert Einstein "You will never change your life until you change something you do daily." --Mike 
Murdock 
"Real difficulties can be overcome. It's the imaginary ones that are unconquerable." -- Theodore Vail 
"Courage is not the absence of fear, but rather the judgement that something else is more important than fear." --Ambrose Redmoon 
"Luck favors the well prepared." --anonymous "Only those who will risk going too far can possibly find out how far one can go." -- 
T.S. Eliot 
"If we can only accept what we currently believe, we have already reached our full potential. Be willing to experiment, to take risks. While skepticism can be healthy, too much skepticism can be deadly... deadly to one's spirit, to one's sense of well-being and to one's dreams." --Blair Warren 
"People will do anything for those who encourage their dreams, justify their failures, allay their fears, confirm their suspicions and help them throw rocks at their enemies." --Blair Warren 
"Your past is not your potential. In any hour you can choose to liberate the future." -- Marilyn Ferguson 
"The minute you settle for less than you deserve, you get even less than you settled for." --Maureen Dowd 
"Adversity is like a strong wind. It tears away from us all but the things that cannot be torn, so that we see ourselves as we really are." --Arthur Golden, Memoirs of a Geisha 
"Real obstacles don't take you in circles. They can be overcome. Invented ones are like a maze." --Barbara Sher 
"If you do not change direction, you may end up where you're heading." --Lao Tzu "The cave you most fear to enter contains the greatest treasure." --Joseph Campbell 
Your fears are not walls, but hurdles. Courage is not the absence of fear, but the conquering of it. –Dan Millman 
Every man has a coward and hero in his soul. –Thomas Carlyle Each day comes bearing its gifts. Untie the ribbons. –Ann Ruth Schabaker 
The future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their dreams. –Eleanor Roosevelt 
If your ship doesn't come in, swim out to it! –Jonathan Winters 
Live your life each day as you would climb a mountain. An occasional glance towards the summit keeps the goal in mind, but many beautiful scenes are to be observed from each new vantage point. –Harold B. Melchart 
"The tragedy of life is not found in failure but complacency. Not in you doing too much, but doing too little. Not in you living above your means, but below your capacity. It's not failure but aiming too low, that is life's greatest tragedy." –Benjamin E. Mayes 
Courage does not always roar. Sometimes, it is the quiet voice at the end of the day saying, "I will try again tomorrow." 
"Calm self-confidence is as far from conceit as the desire to earn a decent living is remote from greed." --Channing Pollock 
"Class is an aura of confidence that is being sure without being cocky. Class has nothing to do with money. Class never runs scared. It is self-discipline and self- knowledge. It's the sure footedness that comes with having proved you can meet life." --Ann Lander 
"Courage is the greatest of all the virtues. Because if you haven't courage, you may not have an opportunity to use any of the others." --Samuel Johnson 
"Fear is the opportunity for courage, not proof of cowardice." --John McCain "Many of our fears are tissue paper thin, and a single courageous step would carry us 
clear through them." --Brendan Francis "Ships are safe within the harbor, but is that what ships are for?" 
"Do not be too timid and squeamish about your actions. All life is an experiment." -- Ralph Waldo Emerson 
"One's action ought to come out of an achieved stillness: not to be a mere rushing on." --D.H. Lawrence  
 
"It is not because things are difficult that we do not dare, it is because we do not dare that things are difficult." --Seneca 
"While one person hesitates because he feels inferior, the other is busy making mistakes and becoming superior." --Henry C. Link 
"You can't help someone get up a hill without getting closer to the top yourself." --H. Norman Schwarzkopf 
"Though no one can go back and make a brand new start, anyone can start from now and make a brand new ending." --Carl Bard 
"I don't know if you'll succeed or fail, but I know this: you will fail if you don't try!" "Better to fail at doing the right thing than to succeed at doing the wrong thing." --Guy 
Kawasaki "People rarely succeed unless they enjoy what they are doing." --Dale Carnegie 
"Optimism is the faith that leads to achievement. Nothing can be done without hope and confidence." --Helen Keller 
"Optimism is a strategy for making a better future. Because unless you believe that the future can be better, it's unlikely you will step up and take responsibility for making it so. If you assume that there's no hope, you guarantee that there will be no hope. If you assume that there is an instinct for freedom, that there are opportunities to change things, there is a chance you may contribute to making a better world. The choice is yours." --Noam Chomsky 
"It is not the strongest of the species that survive, nor the most intelligent, but the one most responsive to change." --Charles Darwin  
PARENTING & EDUCATION 
"Knowledge is learning something new every day. Wisdom is letting go of something every day." --Zen Proverb 
"Education is the great engine of personal development. It is through education that the daughter of a peasant can become a doctor, that a son of a mineworker can become the head of the mine, that a child of farm workers can become the president of a nation." --Nelson Mandela 
"He who asks is a fool for five minutes, but he who does not ask remains a fool forever." --Chinese Proverb 
"The mediocre teacher tells. The good teacher explains. The superior teacher demonstrates. The great teacher inspires." --William Arthur Ward 
"An investment in knowledge pays the best dividends." --Benjamin Franklin "There are obviously two educations. One should teach us how to make a living and 
the other how to live." --James Truslow Adams "Education is not the filling of a pail but the lighting of a fire." --William Butler Yeats 
"Curiosity is the very basis of education and if you tell me that curiosity killed the cat, I say only that the cat died nobly." --Arnold Edinborough 
"Learning is not attained by chance. It must be sought for with ardor and attended to with diligence." --Abigail Adams 
"Minds are like parachutes, they only function when they are open." --James Dewar 
"The mind is like the stomach. It is not how much you put into it that counts, but how much it digests." --A.J. Nock 
"The best thing parents can do for their children is to love each other." 
"If he is indeed wise, the teacher does not bid you enter the house of wisdom, but rather he leads you to the threshold of your own mind." --Kahlil Gibran, The Prophet 
"The surest way to corrupt a youth is to instruct him to hold in higher regard those who think alike than those who think differently." --Nietzsche 
"Tell me and I'll forget. Show me and I'll remember. Involve me and I'll understand." -- Confucius 
"If you think that education is expensive, try ignorance." --Derek Botz "He who asks is a fool for five minutes, but he who does not remains a fools for life." 
--Chinese proverb 
"Common sense is the collection of prejudices acquired by age eighteen." --Albert Einsten 
"The mind is not a vessel to be filled but a fire to be kindled." --Plutarch "A great many people think they are thinking when they are merely rearranging their 
prejudices." --William James 
"Your children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself. They come through you but not from you, and though they are with you, yet they belong not to you. You may give them your love, but not your thoughts. For they have their own thoughts. You may house their bodies but not their souls, for their souls dwell in the house of tomorrow, which you cannot visit, not even in your dreams. You may strive to be like them, but seek not to make them like you. For life goes not backward, nor tarries with yesterday." --Kahlil Gibran 
"When inquiry is suppressed by previous knowledge, or by the authority and experience of another, then learning becomes mere imitation, and imitation causes a human being to repeat what is learned without experiencing it." --J. Krishnamurti 
"Children need models rather than critics." --Joseph Joubert "It is what we think we know already that often prevents us from learning." --Claude 
Bernard 
"The way to make learning a lesson a celebration, instead of a cause for regret, is to ask ... How can I put this to use today?" 
"If someone feels that he has never made a mistake in his life, it only means that he has never tried anything new in his life." --Albert Einstein 
"Learning without thinking is labor lost; thinking without learning is perilous." -- Confucius  
"Prejudice is the child of ignorance." --Hazlitt "The young do not know enough to be prudent, and therefore they attempt the 
impossible, and achieve it, generation after generation." --Pearl S. Buck 
"The only stupid question is one not asked." 
"We have not passed that subtle line between childhood and adulthood until we have stopped saying 'It got lost,' and say, 'I lost it.' " --Sydney J. Harris 
"Education is nothing more, nor less, than learning to think!" --Peter Facione "An educated mind is useless without a focussed will and dangerous without a loving 
heart." --Winfried Deijmann 
"In their freedom, birds make expanding circles in the sky. How do they learn to be free? They fall--and by falling are given wings to fly." --Rumi 
"The trouble with the world is that the stupid are cocksure and the intelligent are full of doubt." --Bertrand Russell 
"The only thing that interferes with my learning is my education." --Albert Einstein "Our vision is more obstructed by what we think we know than by our lack of 
knowledge." --Kristen Stendahl 
"Every act of conscious learning requires the willingness to suffer injury to our self- esteem. That is why young children, before they are aware of their self-importance, learn so easily; and why older people, especially if vain or arrogant, cannot learn at all." --Thomas Szasz 
"The fact that an opinion has been widely held is no evidence that it is not utterly absurd; indeed in view of the silliness of the majority of mankind, a widespread belief is more often likely to be foolish than sensible..." --Bertrand Russell 
"It takes more courage to alter an opinion than to stick with it." 
"Comfort is found among those who agree with you; growth among those who don't." 
"The fact that someone says something doesn't mean it's true. Doesn't mean they're lying, but it doesn't mean it's true.”--Carl Sagan  
 
EMOTIONAL INTELLIGENCE 
"As human beings we all want to be happy and free from misery... we have learned that the key to happiness is inner peace. The greatest obstacles to inner peace are disturbing emotions such as anger, attachment, fear and suspicion, while love and compassion and a sense of universal responsibility are the sources of peace and happiness." --Dalai Lama quote 
"Your pain is the breaking of the shell that encloses your understanding." --Khalil Gibran 
"Life appears to me too short to be spent in nursing animosity or registering wrongs." 
--Charlotte Brontë "He who smiles rather than rages is always the stronger." --Japanese proverb 
"Maturity is achieved when a person postpones immediate pleasures for long-term values." --Joshua L. Liebman 
"Fame is a vapor, popularity an accident. Riches take wing. Only one thing endures. And that is character." --Horace Greeley 
"When you are sorrowful look again in your heart, and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight." --Kahlil Gibran 
"There's enough for everyone's need, but not for everyone's greed." --Ghandi "Holding on to anger is like grasping a hot coal with the intent of throwing it at 
someone else: you are the one who gets burned." --Buddha "Forgiveness does not change the past, but it does enlarge the future." --Paul Boese 
"Jealousy sees things always with magnifying glasses which make little things large, of dwarfs giants, of suspicions truths." --Miguel de Cervantes 
"Never react emotionally to criticism. Analyze yourself to determine whether it is justified. If it is, correct yourself. Otherwise, go on about your business." --Norman Vincent Peale 
"We cannot tell what may happen to us in the strange medley of life. But we can decide what happens in us --how we can take it, what we do with it --and that is what really counts in the end." --Joseph Fort Newton 
"We plant seeds that will flower as results in our lives, so best to remove the weeds of anger, avarice, envy and doubt..." --Dorothy Day 
"Any person capable of angering you becomes your master." --Epictetus "Because fear is insatiable, everything that is insatiable is born of fear." --Alan Cohen 
"There are two cardinal sins from which all the others spring: impatience and laziness." --Franz Kafka 
"Love the heart that hurts you, but never hurt the heart that loves you." --Vipin Sharm "Our feelings are our most genuine paths to knowledge." --Audre Lorde 
"Instead of resisting any emotion, the best way to dispel it is to enter it fully, embrace it and see through your resistance." --Deepak Chopra 
"We are dangerous when we are not conscious of our responsibility for how we behave, think, and feel." --Marshall B. Rosenberg 
"You can conquer almost any fear if you will only make up your mind to do so. For remember, fear doesn't exist anywhere except in the mind." --Dale Carnegie 
"Transformation occurs when existing solutions, assumed truths and past decisions are exposed as unrealistic and self-defeating." --Peter Shepherd 
"Self-pity is our worst enemy and if we yield to it, we can never do anything wise in this world." --Les Brown 
"Experience is not what happens to you - it's how you interpret what happens to you." 
--Aldous Huxley 
"With fear, possessiveness enters the picture, then jealousy rears its ugly head. Jealousy is the opposite of desiring life and freedom of choice for one's partner." -- Peter Shepherd 
"Never speak out of anger, Never act out of fear, Never choose from impatience, But wait... and peace will appear." –Guy Finley 
"Better keep yourself clean and bright; you are the window through which you must see the world." –George Bernard Shaw 
"Confidence on the outside begins by living with integrity on the inside." --Brian Tracy "Faith is a journey...not a guilt trip."  
"The best portion of a good man's life is the little, nameless, unremembered acts of kindness and love." --William Wordsworth 
"In every person who comes near you look for what is good and strong; honor that; try to imitate it, and your faults will drop off like dead leaves when their time comes." -- John Ruskin 
"Any person capable of angering you becomes your master; he can anger you only when you permit yourself to be disturbed by him." --Epictetus 
"Love and kindness are never wasted. They always make a difference. They bless the one who receives them, and they bless you, the giver." --Barbara De Angelis 
"Humility is born of the spirit, humiliation of the ego." –Alan Cohen "The sign of intelligent people is their ability to control emotions by the application of 
reason." –Marya Mannes "The consciousness of loving and being loved brings a warmth and richness to life 
that nothing else can bring." --Oscar Wilde "We plant seeds that will flower as results in our lives, so best to remove the weeds of 
anger, avarice, envy and doubt..." --Dorothy Day "Use pain as a stepping stone, not a camp ground." --Alan Cohen 
"When you make people angry, they act in accordance with their baser instincts, often violently and irrationally. When you inspire people, they act in accordance with their higher instincts, sensibly and rationally. Also, anger is transient, whereas inspiration sometimes has a life-long effect." --Peace Pilgrim 
"Persons of high self-esteem are not driven to make themselves superior to others; they do not seek to prove their value by measuring themselves against a comparative standard. Their joy is being who they are, not in being better than someone else." -- Nathaniel Branden 
"Those who enter the gates of heaven are not beings who have no passions or who have curbed the passions, but those who have cultivated an understanding of them." --William Blake 
"Anxiety is the dizziness of freedom." --Soren Kierkegaard "If we could read the secret history of our enemies, we would find in each man's life a 
sorrow and a suffering enough to disarm all hostility." --Henry Longfellow 
"Change has a considerable psychological impact on the human mind. To the fearful it is threatening because it means that things may get worse. To the hopeful it is encouraging because things may bet better. To the confident it is inspiring because the challenge now exists to make things better." --King Whitney Jr. 
"The sign of intelligent people is their ability to control emotions by the application of reason." --Marya Mannes 
"He who fears he will suffer, already suffers from his fear." --Michel de Montaigne "For it is not death or hardship that is a fearful thing, but the fear of death or 
hardship." --Epictetus "Whatever is begun in anger, ends in shame." --Benjamin Franklin  
 
"Our identity is very closely associated with our thoughts and feelings. Usually, when we feel anger, we become angry. We are anger itself. When we feel depressed, we are depression. When we feel greedy we are greed. It's easy to see ourselves in the emotional 'guise du jour' and mistake this costume for who we really are beneath it." --Marc Gilson 
"Quick to judge, quick to anger, slow to understand... prejudice, fear and ignorance walk hand-in-hand." --Peart 
"Deal with the faults of others as gently as with your own." --Chinese proverb "Every time we allow someone to move us with anger, we teach them to be angry." -- 
Barry Neil Kaufman 
"Depression is merely anger without enthusiasm." 
"No one can make you feel inferior without your consent." --Eleanor Roosevelt "He who spends time regretting the past loses the present and risks the future." -- 
Quevedo 
"Realize that now, in this moment of time, you are creating. You are creating your next moment based on what you are feeling and thinking. That is what's real." --Doc Childre 
"Worrying is like being in a rocking chair. It gives you something to do but does not get you anywhere." 
"When we have inner peace, we can be at peace with those around us. When our community is in a state of peace, it can share that peace with neighboring communities." --Dalai Lama 
"How wonderful it is that nobody need wait a single moment to improve the world." -- Anne Frank 
"The best way to find yourself is to lose yourself in the service of others." --Mahatma Gandhi 
"In any moment of decision, the best thing you can do is the right thing. The worst thing you can do is nothing." --Theodore Roosevelt 
"Until he extends his circle of compassion to include all living things, man will not himself find peace." --Albert Schweitzer 
"I'm okay, you're okay. Now let's go to work." --Lyanla Vanzant "Love all, trust a few, do wrong to none." --William Shakespeare in All's Well That Ends 
Well 
"Education is the great engine of personal development. It is through education that the daughter of a peasant can become a doctor, that the son of a mineworker can become the head of the mine, that a child of farm workers can become the president of a great nation. It is what we make out of what we have, not what we are given, that separates one person from another." --Nelson Mandela 
"All historical experience demonstrates the following: Our earth cannot be changed unless in the not too distant future an alteration in the consciousness of individuals is achieved." --Hans Kung  
 
"A radical inner transformation and rise to a new level of consciousness might be the only real hope we have in the current global crisis brought on by the dominance of the Western mechanistic paradigm." --Stanislav Grof 
"Let everyone sweep in front of his own door, and the whole world will be clean." -- Johann Wolfgang von Goethe 
"Formal education will make you a living; self education will make you a fortune." -- Jim Rohn 
"Open your arms to change, but don't let go of your values." --Dalai Lama "You must take personal responsibility. You cannot change the circumstances, the 
seasons, or the wind, but you can change yourself." --Jim Rohn "I have never met a man so ignorant that I couldn't learn something from him." -- 
Galileo Galilei "Home is not where you live, but where they understand you." --Christian Morganstern 
"Man's greatest actions are performed in minor struggles. Life, misfortune, isolation, abandonment and poverty are battlefields which have their heroes - obscure heroes who are at times greater than illustrious heroes." --Victor Hugo 
"No one is born hating another person because of the color of his skin, or his background, or his religion. People must learn to hate, and if they can learn to hate, they can be taught to love, for love comes more naturally to the human heart than its opposite." --Nelson Mandela 
"It is your prime responsibility to acquire useful knowledge from others and to apply it appropriately. You don't have to reinvent the wheel, but you do have to learn from those who did." --Gary Ryan Blair 
"It is more important to know where you are going than to get there quickly." --Mabel Newcomber 
"Be who you are and say what you feel, because those who mind don't matter and those who matter don't mind." --Dr. Seuss 
"It is good to dream, but it is better to dream and work. Faith is mighty, but action with faith is mightier." --Thomas Robert Gaines 
"Patriotism is the conviction that your country is superior to all others because you were born in it." --George Bernard Shaw 
"Now is the moment. Act in harmony with your values, no matter what or whom you face. When you do, you will live with integrity and feel free and at peace." --Mary Mackenzie 
"Never let your sense of morals get in the way of doing what's right." --Isaac Asimov "The past cannot be changed. The future is yet in your power." --Hugh White 
"Little evil would be done in the world if evil never could be done in the name of good." 
--Marie von Ebner-Eschenbach 
"The young do not know enough to be prudent, and therefore they attempt the impossible -- and achieve it, generation after generation." --Pearl S. Buck 
"Virtue means doing the right thing, in relation to the right person, at the right time, to the right extent, in the right manner, and for the right purpose. Thus, to give money  
away is quite a simple task, but for the act to be virtuous, the donor must give to the right person, for the right purpose, in the right amount, in the right manner, and at the right time." --Aristotle 
"Unswerving loyalty to duty, constant devotion to truth, and a clear conscience will overcome every discouragement and surely lead the way to usefulness and high achievement." --Grover Cleveland 
"Strange is our situation here upon earth. Each of us comes for a short visit, not knowing why, yet sometimes seeming to divine a purpose. From the standpoint of daily life, however, there is one thing we do know - that man is here for the sake of other men." --Albert Einstein 
"I believe each individual is naturally entitled to do as he pleases with himself and the fruits of his labor, so far as it in no way interferes with any other man's rights." -- Abraham Lincoln 
"Change will not come if we wait for some other person or some other time. We are the ones we've been waiting for. We are the change that we seek." --Barack Obama 
"A lie has speed, but truth has endurance." --Edgar J. Mohn 
"An individual has not started living until he can rise above the narrow confines of his individualistic concerns to the broader concerns of all humanity." --Martin Luther King, Jr. 
"Who among us is not at a loss for words? Tears pour out. Tears of joy. Tears of relief. A stunning, whopping landslide of hope in a time of deep despair. In a nation that was founded on genocide and then built on the backs of slaves, it was an unexpected moment, shocking in its simplicity: Barack Obama, a good man, a black man, said he would bring change to Washington, and the majority of the country liked that idea." -- Michael Moore 
"On account of being a democracy and run by the people, we are the only nation in the world that has to keep a government four years, no matter what it does." --Will Rogers 
"It is nobler to lose honor and save the lives of men than it is to gain honor by taking them." --David Borenstein 
"How very important it is to bring about in the human mind the radical revolution. The crisis is a crisis in consciousness, a crisis that cannot anymore accept the old norms, the old patterns, the ancient traditions. Considering what the world is now with all the misery, conflict, destructive brutality, aggression and so on... man is still as he was, is still brutal, violent, aggressive, acquisitive, competitive and has built a society along these lines." --Krisnamurti 
"When freedom prevails, the ingenuity and inventiveness of people creates incredible wealth. This is the source of the natural improvement of the human condition." --Brian S. Wesbury 
"If you don't stand for something, you'll fall for anything." --Martin Luther King 
"The measure of a man cannot be whether he ever makes mistakes, because he will make mistakes. It's what he does in response to his mistakes. The same is true of companies. We have to apologize, we have to fix the problem, and we have to learn from our mistakes." --Wil Shipley 
"Start by doing what's necessary, then do what's possible, and suddenly... you are doing the impossible." --Francis of Assisi 
"To be yourself in a world that is constantly trying to make you something else is the greatest accomplishment." --Ralph Waldo Emerson 
"Whenever you find you are on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect." 
--Mark Twain 
"The world is a dangerous place to live; not because of the people who are evil, but because of the people who don't do anything about it." --Albert Einstein 
"None of us can do great things. We can only do a small thing with great love every day!" --Mother Teresa 
"If you really want to create peace on the earth, create peace in your heart, in your being. That is the right place to begin with... and then spread and radiate peace and love." --Osho 
"When the facts change, I change my mind. What do you do, sir?" --John Maynard Keynes 
"Half of your power lies in your sameness with others. The other half lies in your uniqueness." --Alan Cohen 
"We've been warned against offering the people of this nation false hope. But in the unlikely story that is America, there has never been anything false about hope." -- Barack Obama 
"We have to do the best we can. This is our sacred human responsibility." --Albert Einstein 
"Freedom is actually a bigger game than power. Power is about what you can control. Freedom is about what you can unleash." --Harriet Rubin 
"No one knows what is in him till he tries, and many would never try if they were not forced to." --Basil W. Maturin 
"In the new enlightenment, the reason we are driven to become one with the life- process is not merely to experience some form of mystical oneness with everything. We strive to become one with it for the biggest reason there could be - so we can ultimately take responsibility for where it's going." --Andrew Cohen 
"It is difficult to get a man to understand something when his salary depends upon his not understanding it." --Upton Sinclair 
"The question in life is not whether you get knocked down. You will. The question is, are you ready to get back up... and fight for what you believe in?" --Dan Quayle 
"In a time of drastic change it is the learners who inherit the future. The learned usually find themselves equipped to live in a world that no longer exists." --Eric Hoffer 
"Someday, after mastering the winds, the waves, the tides and gravity, we shall harness for God the energies of Love; and then, for a second time in the history of the world, man will have discovered fire." --Pierre Teilhard de Chardin 
"In every community there is work to be done. In every nation, there are wounds to heal. In every heart there is the power to do it." --Marianne Williamson  
 
"This planet can be made a happier, more peaceful place to live, but the change will have to come from within the hearts of all of us living here." --Wisdom from Science of Identity Foundation 
"Re-examine all you have been told in school or church or in any book and dismiss whatever insults your own soul." --Walt Whitman 
A human being is a part of a whole, called by us universe, a part limited in time and space. He experiences himself, his thoughts and feelings as something separated from the rest... a kind of optical delusion of his consciousness. This delusion is a kind of prison for us, restricting us to our personal desires and to affection for a few persons nearest to us. Our task must be to free ourselves from this prison by widening our circle of compassion to embrace all living creatures and the whole of nature in its beauty. –Albert Einstein 
"If you're not tough it's hard to survive in this world; and if you're not kind then you don't deserve to survive." –Raymond Chandler (from the novel, 'Dick Tracy') 
"It is easy to dodge our responsibilities, but we cannot dodge the consequences of dodging our responsibilities." --Sir Josiah Stamp 
"Most people are other people. Their thoughts are someone else's opinions, their lives a mimicry, their passions a quotation." --George Bernard Shaw 
"The judgment of others does not change who I am. Quite the opposite is true. It reveals who they are." --Terry McPhearson 
"The right way is not always the popular and easy way. Standing for right when it is unpopular is a true test of moral character." --Margaret Chase Smith 
"You can fool some of the people all of the time, and all of the people some of the time, but you can not fool all of the people all of the time." --Abraham Lincoln 
"The man who is aware of himself is henceforward independent; and he is never bored, and life is only too short, and he is steeped through and through with a profound yet temperate happiness. He alone lives, while other people, slaves of ceremony, let life slip past them in a kind of dream." --Virginia Woolf 
"It is not the strongest of the species who survive, not the most intelligent, but those who are the most adaptive to change." --Charles Darwin 
"The surest way to corrupt a youth is to instruct him to hold in higher regard those who think alike than those who think differently." --Nietzsche 
"A truth's initial commotion is directly proportional to how deeply the lie was believed... When a well-packaged web of lies has been sold gradually to the masses over generations, the truth will seem utterly preposterous and its speaker, a raving lunatic." --Dresden James 
"I am free, no matter what rules surround me. If I find them tolerable, I tolerate them; if I find them too obnoxious, I break them. I am free because I know that I alone am morally responsible for everything I do." --Robert A. Heinlein 
"Nearly all men can stand adversity, but if you want to test a man's character, give him power." --Abraham Lincoln 
"If there is righteousness in the heart There will be beauty in the character; If there is beauty in the character There will be harmony in the home; When there is harmony in the home There will be order in the nation; When there is order in the nation There will be peace in the world." --Sai Baba 
"If we don't believe in freedom of expression for people we despise, we don't believe in it at all." --Noam Chomsky 
"You never change things by fighting the existing reality. To change something, build a new model that makes the existing model obsolete." --R. Buckminster Fuller 
"So many gods, so many creeds, So many paths that cross and wind, While just the art of being kind Is all the sad world needs." --Ella Wheeler Wilcox 
"God, grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, the courage to change the things I can, and the wisdom to know the difference." --Reinhold Niebuhr 
"When I despair, I remember that all through history, the way of truth and love has always won. There have been tyrants and murderers, and for a time they seem invincible, but in the end, they always fall. Think of it, always." --Mahatma Gandhi 
"A lie can go halfway around the world before the truth even gets its boots on." --Mark Twain 
"It's easier to fight for one's principles than to live up to them." --Adler "The greatest deception men suffer is from their own opinions." --Leonardo da Vinci 
"When we are no longer able to change a situation... we are challenged to change ourselves." --Victor Frankl 
"Those who do not forgive history are assigned to repeat it until compassion replaces judgment." --Alan Cohen 
"The right way is not always the popular and easy way. Standing for right when it is unpopular is a true test of moral character." --Margaret Chase Smith 
"History teaches us that men and nations behave wisely only after they have exhausted all other alternatives." --Abba Eban 
"A nation that values it's privileges above its principles soon loses both." -- Eisenhower 
"Talk sense to a fool and he calls you foolish." --Euripedes "Opinions founded on prejudice are always defended with the greatest violence." -- 
Hebrew proverb "What luck for the rulers that men do not think." --Adolph Hitler 
"The great mass of people more easily fall victim to a big lie than to a minor one." -- Adolph Hitler  
"You can discover what your enemy fears most by what he uses to frighten you." -- Eric Hoffer 
"Those who make peaceful reform impossible will make violent revolution inevitable." 
--J. F. Kennedy 
"Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere." --Martin Luther King 
"If you tell the truth, you don't have to remember anything." --Mark Twain 
"If we could read the secret history of our enemies, we would find in each man's life a sorrow and a suffering enough to disarm all hostility." --Henry Longfellow 
"If war is ever lawful, then peace is sometimes sinful." --C. S. Lewis 
"Diplomacy is the art of letting someone else get your way." 
"It is not the function of government to keep the citizen from falling into error; it is the function of the citizen to keep the government from falling into error." --Justice Robert jackson 
"When you look at the long history of man, you see that more hideous crimes have been comitted in the name of obedience than have been comitted in the name of rebellion." --C. P. Snow 
"Our lives begin to end the day we become silent about things that matter." --Martin Luther King, Jr. 
"Whenever you find you are on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect." 
--Mark Twain "If you are seeking revenge, start by digging two graves." --Ancient Chinese proverb 
"Do you know what astonished me most in the world? The inability of force to create anything. In the long run, the sword is always beaten by the spirit." --Napoleon Bonaparte - stated near the end of his life 
"A great many people think they are thinking when they are merely rearranging their prejudices." --William James 
"The world is a dangerous place to live, not because of the people who are evil, but because of the people who don't do anything about it." --Albert Einstein 
"We all judge others, but we all hate it when others judge us." 
"The measure of a person's real character is what he would do if he knew he would never be found out." --Thomas Macaulay 
"Everyone needs to be loved, especially when they do not deserve it." 
"I have never met a man so ignorant that I couldn't learn something from him." -- Galileo Galilei 
"People take different roads seeking fulfillment and happiness. Just because they're not on your road doesn't mean they've gotten lost." --H. Jackson Brown, Jr. 
"If we have no peace, it is because we have forgotten that we belong to each other." -- Mother Teresa 
"The art of progress is to preserve order amid change - and to preserve change amid order" --Alfred North Whitehead  
 
"Don't walk behind me; I may not lead. Don't walk in front of me; I may not follow. Just walk beside me and be my friend." --Albert Camus 
"He who trims himself to suit everyone will soon whittle himself away." --Raymond Hull 
"I have come to the frightening conclusion that I am the decisive element. It is my personal approach that creates the climate. It is my daily mood that makes the weather. I possess tremendous power to make life miserable or joyous. I can be a tool of torture or an instrument of inspiration, I can humiliate or humor, hurt or heal. In all situations, it is my response that decides whether a crisis is escalated or de-escalated, and a person is humanized or de-humanized. If we treat people as they are, we make them worse. If we treat people as they ought to be, we help them become what they are capable of becoming." --Goethe 
"You can stand tall without standing on someone. You can be a victor without having victims." --Harriet Woods 
"An eye for an eye will only serve to make the whole world blind." 
--Mahatma Ghandi 
"Common sense, to most people, is nothing more than their own opinions." --William Hazlitt 
"Just because you are not interested in politics, does not mean that politics is not interested in you." --Pericles 
"Once the game is over, the king and the pawn go back in the same box." 
"Everything can be taken from a man but...the last of the human freedoms - to choose one's attitude in any given set of circumstances, to choose one's own way." --Viktor Frankl 
"A human being is part of a whole, called by us the Universe, a part limited in time and space. He experiences himself, his thoughts and feelings, as something separated from the rest--a kind of optical delusion of his consciousness. This delusion is a kind of prison for us, restricting us to our personal desires and to affection for a few persons nearest us. Our task must be to free ourselves from this prison by widening our circles of compassion to embrace all living creatures and the whole of nature in its beauty." --Albert Einstein 
"The reasonable man adapts himself to the world; the unreasonable one persists in trying to adapt the world to himself. Therefore all progress depends on the unreasonable man." --George Bernard Shaw 
"If we don't believe in freedom of expression for people we despise, we don't believe in it at all." --Noam Chomsky 
"All that is necessary for evil to succeed is for good men to do nothing." --Edmund Burke 
"Real peace is not the absence of conflict, it is the presence of justice" --Film: 'Air Force One' 
"A man is ethical only when life, as such, is sacred to him, that of plants and animals as that of his fellow men, and when he devotes himself helpfully to all life that is in need of help." --Albert Schweitzer  
"Feeling grateful or appreciative of someone or something in your life actually attracts more of the things that you appreciate and value into your life." --Northrup Christiane 
"Civilization is a stream with banks. The stream is sometimes filled with blood from people killing, stealing, shouting and doing the things historians usually record, while on the banks, unnoticed, people build homes, make love, raise children, sing songs, write poetry and even whittle statues. The story of civilization is what happened on the banks." --Will Durant 
"This above all: to thine own self be true. And it must follow, as the night the day, thou canst not then be false to any man." --William Shakespeare (Hamlet) 
"All mankind is divided into three classes: those who are immovable, those who are movable; and those who move." 
--Benjamin Franklin 
"Great minds discuss ideas. Average minds discuss events. Small minds discuss people."  
CREATIVITY 
"Creativity reduces instinctual tension, it fuses pleasure with reality, and satisfies the libido." --Peter Shepherd 
"You never change things by fighting the existing reality. To change something, build a new model that makes the existing model obsolete." --Richard Buckminster Fuller 
"An idea, like a ghost, must be spoken to a little before it will explain itself." --Charles Dickens 
"If I had asked my customers what they wanted, they would have said a faster horse." 
--Henry Ford "The best way to have a good idea is to have lots of ideas." --Linus Pauling 
"You get told that the world is the way it is, but life can be much broader once you discover one simple fact; and that is that everything around you that you call life was made up by people no smarter than you. Once you learn that, youll never be the same again." --Steve Jobs 
"The intuitive mind is a sacred gift and the rational mind a faithful servant. We have created a society that honors the servant and have forgotten the gift." --Albert Einstein 
"Knowledge is an unending adventure at the edge of uncertainty." --Jacob Bronowski "The conventional view serves to protect us from the painful job of thinking." --John 
Kenneth Galbraith 
"The intuitive mind is a sacred gift; the rational mind is a faithful servant. We have created a society that honours the servant and has forgotten the gift." --Albert Einstein 
"Change cannot be avoided... change provides the opportunity for innovation. It gives you the chance to demonstrate your creativity." --Felice Jones 
"Adversity has the effect of eliciting talents which, in prosperous circumstances, would have lain dormant." --Horace, Roman poet 
"Vision without execution is hallucination." --Thomas Edison "There are three kinds of people: . Innovators. . Imitators. . Idiots." --Warren Buffett 
"Some people say that dreaming gets you nowhere in life. But I say you can't get anywhere in life without dreaming." --Rose Zadra 
"It is through science that we prove, but through intuition that we discover." --Jules H. Poincare 
"The future is not some place we are going, but one we are creating. The paths are not to be found, but made. And the activity of making them changes both the maker and their destination." --John Schaar 
"Change. It has the power to uplift, to heal, to stimulate, surprise, open new doors, bring fresh experience and create excitement in life. Certainly it is worth the risk." -- Leo Buscaglia 
"The beginning of wisdom is found in doubting; by doubting we come to the question." --Pierre Abela 
"Do not go where the path may lead; go instead where there is no path and leave a trail." --Ralph Waldo Emerson 
"Anyone who has never made a mistake has never tried anything new." --Albert Einstein 
"Unless you try to do something beyond what you have already mastered, you will never grow." --Ronald E. Osborn 
"The thoughts we choose to think are the tools we use to paint the canvas of our lives." --Louise Hay 
"Only those who will risk going too far can possibly find out how far one can go." --T. S. Eliot 
"Reason can answer questions, but imagination has to ask them." --Ralph Gerard "If we would have new knowledge, we must get a whole world of new questions." -- 
Susanne K. Langer 
"Some men see things as they are and ask why. Others dream things that never were and ask why not." --George Bernard Shaw 
"Every artist dips his brush in his own soul, and paints his own nature into his pictures." --Henry Ward Beecher 
"To know that we know what we know, and to know that we do not know what we do not know, that is true knowledge." --Copernicus 
"A true knowledge of ourselves is knowledge of our power." --Mark Rutherford "To assume is to be deceived." --Yiddish proverb 
"High values offer broad vision. Broad vision gives rise to burning desire. Burning desire leads to focused intent. Focused intent stimulates committed action. Then God arranges the details!" --Wallace Huey  
 
"Creativity is a marrying of our values, which determine the field of our endeavor, with our intentions, which draw to us the people, resources and finance. Creative genius values love and service and intends whatever is most urgently required." --Wallace Huey. 
"Creativity gives rise to the limited out of the unlimited, to sanity out of madness, to the valuable out of the priceless, to abundance out of nothingness, to the original out of the familiar and to hope out of despair." --Wallace Huey 
"To create an original work you must become a seer with eyes of spirit, that penetrate an invisible world and see the unformed future, which is the potential birthing place of an innovative product, service, invention or artistic achievement. Then you need to go into labour!" --Wallace Huey 
"To live a creative life, we must lose our fear of being wrong." --Joseph Chilton Pearce "If you gave your inner genius as much credence as your inner critic, you would be 
light years ahead of where you now stand." --Alan Cohen "Feeling and longing are the motive forces behind all human endeavor and human 
creations." --Albert Einstein "Mastery is not perfection, it is journey, and the true master must be willing to try and 
fail and try again." --George Leonard "To be independent of public opinion is the first formal condition of achieving anything 
great." --G. W. F. Hegel 
"The truth is that our finest moments are most likely to occur when we are feeling deeply uncomfortable, unhappy, or unfulfilled. For it is only in such moments, propelled by our discomfort, that we are likely to step out of our ruts and start searching for different ways or truer answers." --M. Scott Peck 
"Better to write for yourself and have no public, than to write for the public and have no self." --Cyril Connolly 
"It is our duty as men and women to proceed as though the limits to our abilities do not exist." --Pierre Teilhard de Chardin 
"The man who comes up with a means for doing or producing anything better, faster or more economically has his future and his fortune at his fingertips." --John Paul Getty 
"The difference between great people and everyone else is that great people create their lives actively, while everyone else is created by their lives, passively waiting to see where life takes them next. The difference between the two is the difference between living fully and just existing." --Michael E. Gerber 
"If you can imagine it, you can achieve it. If you can dream it, you can become it." -- William A. Ward 
"Few will have the greatness to bend history itself, but each of us can work to change a small portion of events, and in the total of all those acts will be written the history of this generation." --John F. Kennedy 
"The real voyage of discovery consists not in seeking new landscapes, but in having new eyes." --Marcel Proust  
"When freedom prevails, the ingenuity and inventiveness of people creates incredible wealth. This is the source of the natural improvement of the human condition." --Brian S. Wesbury 
"Let go of your attachment to being right, and suddenly your mind is more open. You're able to benefit from the unique viewpoints of others, without being crippled by your own judgment." --Ralph Marston 
"To try is to risk failure. But risk must be taken because the greatest hazard of life is to risk nothing. The person who risks nothing does nothing, has nothing, is nothing. He may avoid suffering and sorrow, but he simply cannot learn, feel, change, grow, live, and love." –Leo Buscaglia 
"To live a creative life, we must lose our fear of being wrong." --Joseph Chilton Pearce 
"When I take on a new problem, I'm not interested in how it's been done before. I only want to know, of all the constraints people tend to assume, which ones are actually fundamental and which ones are just habit?" –Jeff Bonwick, Sun Microsystems 
"It takes a lot of courage to release the familiar and seemingly secure, to embrace the new. But there is no real security in what is no longer meaningful. There is more security in the adventurous and exciting, for in movement there is life, and in change there is power." –Alan Cohen 
"You can never change things by fighting the existing reality. To change something, build a new model that makes the existing model obsolete." –Buckminster Fuller 
"If at first the idea is not absurd, then there is no hope for it." --Albert Einstein "Talent hits a target no one else can hit; Genius hits a target no one else can see." -- 
Arthur Schopenhauer 
"Different is not necessarily better but better is always different." --Hugh Lendrum "Imagination is everything; it is the preview of life's forthcoming attractions." --Albert 
Einstein 
"Imagination is the beginning of creation. You imagine what you desire, you will what you imagine and at last you create what you will." --George Bernard Shaw 
"Your vision will become clear only when you can look into your own heart. Who looks outside, dreams, who looks inside awakes." --Carl Gustav Jung 
"No great artists ever sees things as they really are. If he did then he would cease to be an artist." --Oscar Wilde 
"Perhaps the only limits to the human mind are those we believe in." --Willis Harman "The best way to predict the future is to invent it... " --Alan Kay 
"Creativity is inventing, experimenting, growing, taking risks, breaking rules, making mistakes, and having fun." --Mary Lou Cook 
"I skate to where the puck is going to be, not where it has been." --Wayne Gretzky "You can't depend on your judgement when your imagination is out of focus." --Mark 
Twain 
"The aspects of a thing that are most important to us are hidden to us because of their simplicity and familiarity." --Ludwig Wittgenstein 
"The man who strikes first admits that his ideas have run out." --Chinese proverb "Common sense is the collection of prejudices acquired by age eighteen." --Albert 
Einsten 
"You are the masterpiece of your own life; you are the Michelangelo of your own life. The David that you are sculpting is you." --Joe Vitale 
"Don't be afraid of the space between your dreams and reality. If you can dream it, you can make it so." --Belva Davis 
"Life is creation -- self and circumstances, the raw material." --Dorothy M. Richardson "Life in itself is an empty canvas; it becomes whatsoever you paint on it. You can paint 
misery, you can paint bliss. This freedom is your glory." --Osho ""When something exceeds your ability to understand how it works, it sort of becomes 
magical." --Jonathan Ive "God gives talent, work transforms talent into genius." --Anna Pavlova 
"Change cannot be avoided... change provides the opportunity for innovation. It gives you the chance to demonstrate your creativity." --Felice Jones 
"Going against the grain may result in a few splinters, and it may rub a few people the wrong way, but going with it is like forcing your TRUE self to walk the plank!" --David Roppo 
"When solving problems, dig at the roots instead of just hacking at the leaves." -- Anthony J. D'Angelo 
"A dream is a wish your heart makes." --Annette Funicello 
"We make our world significant by the courage of our questions and by the depth of our answers. Intellectual brilliance is no guarantee against being dead wrong." --Carl Sagan 
"If I have ever made any valuable discoveries, it has been owing more to patient attention than to any other talent." --Isaac Newton 
"Do not follow where the path may lead. Go instead where there is no path and leave a trail." --Ralph Waldo Emerson 
"It often takes more courage to change one's opinion than to keep it." --Willy Brandt "Sometimes your only available transportation is a leap of faith." --Margaret Shepherd 
"The problem is not that there are problems. The problem is expecting otherwise and thinking that having problems is a problem." --Theodore Rubin 
"Imagination grows by exercise, and contrary to common belief, is more powerful in the mature than in the young." –Paul McCartney 
"The intuitive mind is a sacred gift and the rational mind is a faithful servant." –Albert Einstein 
"In each of us are places where we have never gone. Only by pressing the limits do we ever find them." –Dr. Joyce Brothers 
"Life's gift to you is your unique vantage point. Your gift to life is expressing from it." 
--Alan Cohen  
"A musician must make music, an artist must paint, a poet must write, if he is to be ultimately at peace with himself. What a man can be, he must be." --Abraham Maslow 
"The deepest longing in the human breast is the desire for appreciation." --William James 
"Intuition is not contrary to reason, but outside the province of reason." --Carl Jung "The road to enlightenment is paved with authenticity, not imitation." --Alan Cohen 
"Optimism is a strategy for making a better future. Because unless you believe that the future can be better, it's unlikely you will step up and take responsibility for making it so. If you assume that there's no hope, you guarantee that there will be no hope. If you assume that there is an instinct for freedom, that there are opportunities to change things, there is a chance you may contribute to making a better world. The choice is yours." --Noam Chomsky 
"It is not the strongest of the species that survive, nor the most intelligent, but the one most responsive to change." --Charles Darwin 
"When you are inspired by some great purpose, some extraordinary project, all your thoughts break their bounds. Dormant forces, faculties and talents become alive, and you discover yourself to be a greater person by far than you ever dreamed yourself to be." --Pantanjali 
"If you limit your choices only to what seems possible or reasonable, you disconnect yourself from what you truly want, and all that remains is a compromise." --Robert Fritz 
"Only those who will risk going too far can possibly find out how far one can go." --T. S. Eliot 
"I am enough of an artist to draw freely upon my imagination. Imagination is more important than knowledge. Knowledge is limited. Imagination encircles the world." -- Albert Einstein 
"If you're not living on the edge... you're taking up too much room." --African Proverb "Whatever you can do, or dream you can, begin it. Boldness has genius, power and 
magic in it." 
--Goethe 
"If life doesn't offer a game worth playing, then invent a new one." --Anthony J. D'Angelo 
"It is through science that we prove, but through intuition that we discover." --Henri Poincare 
"Neither a lofty degree of intelligence nor imagination nor both together go to the making of genius. Love, love, love, that is the soul of genius." --WolfgangMozart 
"The reasonable man adapts himself to the world; the unreasonable one persists in trying to adapt the world to himself. Therefore all progress depends on the unreasonable man." --George Bernard Shaw 
"Vision without action is a daydream; action without vision is a nightmare." -- Japanese proverb 
"The impossible is often the untried." --Jim Goodwin  
"When one door closes another door opens; but we so often look so long and so regretfully upon the closed door, that we do not see the ones which open for us." -- Alexander Graham Bell 
"Problems cannot be solved at the same level of awareness that created them." -- Albert Einstein 
"When everything's coming your way, you're in the wrong lane." 
"If it's stupid but it works, it isn't stupid." 
"It takes more courage to alter an opinion than to stick with it." 
"Comfort is found among those who agree with you; growth among those who don't." 
"Pay no attention to critics. No one ever erected a statue to a critic" --Werner Ehrhart "Everything looks impossible for the people who never try anything." --Jean-Louis 
Etienne 
"Here's to the crazy ones. The misfits. The rebels. The troublemakers. 
The round pegs in the square holes. The ones who see things differently. They're not fond of rules. And they have no respect for the status quo. You can praise them, disagree with them, quote them, disbelieve them, glorify or vilify them. 
About the only thing you can't do is ignore them. Because they change things. They invent. They imagine. They heal. They explore. They create. They inspire. 
They push the human race forward. Maybe they have to be crazy. How else can you stare at an empty canvas and see a work of art? Or sit in silence and hear a song that's never been written? Or gaze at a red planet and see a laboratory on wheels? We make tools for these kinds of people. While some see them as the crazy ones, we see genius. Because the people who are crazy enough to think they can change the world, are the ones who do." --Apple Think Different advert. 
"When you're young, you look at most of the programs on television and think, 'There's a conspiracy! The networks have conspired to dumb us down!' But when you get a little older, you realize that's not true. The networks are in the business to make money by giving people exactly what they want. That's a far more depressing thought. Conspiracy is optimistic. You can shoot the bastards! We can have a revolution!" -- Steve Jobs 
"Without death there would be very little progress." --Steve Jobs 
"You know, we don't grow most of the food we eat. We wear clothes other people make. We speak a language that other people developed. We use a mathematics that  
 
other people evolved... I mean, we're constantly taking things. It's a wonderful, ecstatic feeling to create something that puts it back in the pool of human experience and knowledge." --Steve Jobs 
"We don't get a chance to do that many things, and every one should be really excellent. Because this is our life. Life is brief, and then you die, you know? So this is what we've chosen to do with our life. We could be sitting in a monastery somewhere in Japan. We could be out sailing. Some of the team could be playing golf. They could be running other companies. And we've all chosen to do this with our lives. So it better be damn good. It better be worth it. And we think it is." --Steve Jobs 
"Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don't be trapped by dogma - which is living with the results of other people's thinking. Don't let the noise of others' opinions drown out your own inner voice. And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition." --Steve Jobs 
Famously wrong insights . . . "Computers in the future may weigh no more than . tons." --Popular Mechanics, 
forecasting the relentless march of science,  
"I think there is a world market for maybe five computers." --Thomas Watson, chairman of IBM,  
"I have traveled the length and breadth of this country and talked with the best people, and I can assure you that data processing is a fad that won't last out the year." --The editor in charge of business books for Prentice Hall,  
"But what ... is it good for?" --Engineer at the Advanced Computing Systems Division of IBM, ,commenting on the microchip. 
"There is no reason anyone would want a computer in their home." --Ken Olson, president, chairman and founder of Digital Equipment Corp.,  
"This 'telephone' has too many shortcomings to be seriously considered as a means of communication. The device is inherently of no value to us." --Western Union internal memo, . 
"The wireless music box has no imaginable commercial value. Who would pay for a message sent to nobody in particular?" --David Sarnoff's associates in response to his urgings for investment in the radio in the s. 
"The concept is interesting and well-formed, but in order to earn better than a 'C,' the idea must be feasible." --A Yale University management professor in response to Fred Smith's paper proposing reliable overnight delivery service. (Smith went on to found Federal Express Corp.) 
"I'm just glad it'll be Clark Gable who's falling on his face not Gary Cooper." --Gary Cooper on his decision not to take the leading role in "Gone With The Wind." 
"A cookie store is a bad idea. Besides, the market research reports say America likes crispy cookies, not soft and chewy cookies like you make." --Response to Debbi Fields' idea of starting Mrs. Fields'Cookies. 
"We don't like their sound, and guitar music is on the way out." --Decca Recording Co. rejecting the Beatles, . 
"Heavier-than-air flying machines are impossible." --Lord Kelvin, president, Royal Society, . 
"If I had thought about it, I wouldn't have done the experiment. The literature was full of examples that said you can't do this." --Spencer Silver on the work that led to the unique adhesives for -M "Post-It" Notepads. 
"So we went to Atari and said, 'Hey, we've got this amazing thing, even built with some of your parts, and what do you think about funding us? Or we'll give it to you. We just want to do it. Pay our salary, we'll come work for you.' And they said, 'No.' So then we went to Hewlett-Packard, and they said, 'Hey, we don't need you. You haven't got through college yet.'" --Apple Computer Inc. founder Steve Jobs on attempts to get Atari and HP interested in his and Steve Wozniak's personal computer. 
"Professor Goddard does not know the relation between action and reaction and the need to have something better than a vacuum against which to react. He seems to lack the basic knowledge ladled out daily in high schools." -- New York Times editorial about Robert Goddard's revolutionary rocket work. 
"Drill for oil? You mean drill into the ground to try and find oil? You're crazy." --Drillers who Edwin L. Drake tried to enlist to his project to drill for oil in . 
"Stocks have reached what looks like a permanently high plateau." --Irving Fisher, Professor of Economics, Yale University, . 
"Airplanes are interesting toys but of no military value." --Marechal Ferdinand Foch, Professor of Strategy, Ecole Superieure de Guerre. 
"Everything that can be invented has been invented." --Charles H. Duell, Commissioner, U.S. Office of Patents, . 
"Louis Pasteur's theory of germs is ridiculous fiction". --Pierre Pachet, Professor of Physiology at Toulouse,  
"The abdomen, the chest, and the brain will forever be shut from the intrusion of the wise and humane surgeon". --Sir John Eric Ericksen, British surgeon, appointed Surgeon- Extraordinary to Queen Victoria . 
"K ought to be enough for anybody." --Bill Gates,  "Who the hell wants to hear actors talk?" --H.M. Warner, Warner Brothers, . 
"Put your hand on a hot stove for a minute, and it seems like an hour. Sit with a pretty girl for an hour, and it seems like a minute. That's relativity." --Albert Einstein 
"The only normal people are the ones that you don't know very well." --Alfred Adler "Music washes away from the soul the dust of everyday life." --Berthold Auerbach "Time flies. It's up to you to be the navigator." --Robert Orben "What soap is to the body, laughter is to the soul." --Yiddish Proverb 
"If you can't get a compliment any other way, pay yourself one." --Mark Twain "If you talk to God, you are praying; if God talks to you, you have schizophrenia." -- 
Thomas Szasz 
"A smile is an inexpensive way to improve your looks." --Charles Gordy 
"If you want to leave footprints in the sands of time, don't drag your feet." --Anon. 
"I am so clever that sometimes I don't understand a single word of what I am saying." 
--Oscar Wilde "Some cause happiness wherever they go; others whenever they go." --Oscar Wilde "The harder you fall, the higher you bounce." --Anonymous 
"A kiss is a lovely trick designed by nature to stop speech when words become superfluous." --Ingrid Bergman  
"When one is at home, he dreams of adventure. When one is on an adventure, he dreams of home." --Anonymous 
"True humor is fun - it does not put down, kid, or mock. It makes people feel wonderful, not separate, different, and cut off. True humor has beneath it the understanding that we are all in this together." --Hugh Prather 
"Two things are infinite: the universe and human stupidity; and I'm not sure about the universe." --Albert Einstein 
"I prefer to be a pessimist; it makes it easier to deal with my inevitable failure." --Film: The McMullen Brothers 
"My choices in life were either to be a piano player in a whore house or a politician. And to tell the truth, there's hardly any difference!" --Harry Truman 
"Who is more foolish? The fool or the fool that follows him?" --Alec Guiness 
"When I look back on all these worries, I remember the story of the old man who said on his deathbed that he had had a lot of trouble in his life, most of which had never happened." --Winston Churchill 
"To be ignorant of one's ignorance is the malady of the ignorant." --Amos Bronson Alcott 
"Turn your melodrama into a mellow drama." --Ram Dass "A boy can learn a lot from a dog: obedience, loyalty, and the importance of turning 
around three times before lying down." --Robert Benchley "If you think you are too small to be effective, you have never been in the dark with a 
mosquito." --Betty Reese 
"Life in Lubbock, Texas, taught me two things: One is that God loves you and you're going to burn in hell. The other is that sex is the most awful, filthy thing on earth and you should save it for someone you love." --Butch Hancock, Flatlanders 
"The only stupid question is the one that goes unasked." 
"Every time we open our mouths, people can look into our minds." 
"If people knew how hard I had to work to gain my mastery, it wouldn't seem wonderful at all!" --Michelangelo 
"Whether you think you can or think you can't, you are right." --Henry Ford "Don't be so humble; you're not that great." --Golda Meir, to a visiting diplomat 
"Years ago, my momma taught me that two wrongs don't make a right - but I soon figured out that three left turns do." --Jim Hightower 
Best corporate IT quote ever: "I don't think iPhone brings anything new to the table. It has a great user experience, but that's all." --Manjit Singh, CIO 
"Always remember you're unique. Just like everyone else." 
"Nothing will ever be attempted if all possible objections must be overcome first." 
"I'm going to stop procrastinating ... once I get around to it." 
"If at first you don't succeed, skydiving is not for you."  
"Give a man a fish and he will eat for a day. Teach him how to fish, and he will sit in a boat and drink beer all day." 
"Never test the depth of the water with both feet." 
"Don't be irreplaceable. If you can't be replaced, you can't be promoted." 
"If you lend someone $ and never see that person again, it was probably worth it." 
"Experience is something you don't get until just after you need it." 
"Millions long for immortality who don't know what to do with themselves on a rainy Sunday afternoon." --Susan Ertz 
"Do not do unto others as you would have them do unto you. They may have different tastes." --George Bernard Shaw 
"The difference between erotic and kinky is that one uses a feather, the other uses the whole chicken." 
The graduate with a Science degree asks, "Why does it work?" The graduate with an Engineering degree asks, "How does it work?" The graduate with an Accounting degree asks, "How much will it cost?" The graduate with a Liberal Arts degree asks, "Do you want fries with that?" 
"Experience is that marvelous thing that enables you to recognize a mistake when you make it again." --F. P. Jones 